Company Policy
and Procedure
Manual
TriageLogic, LLC
Initial Version November 2013
Last update June 4, 2018
Version 6.0
Approved By:
Charu G. Raheja, PhD
Chair/CEO
TriageLogic, LL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Note: this covers:
https://accreditnet.urac.org/Application/3271/Evidence
Core Standards 1 to 40
I. Welcome Core 2
1. About Our Company .............................................................................................................5
2. Mission Statement...................................................................................................................5
3. OrganizationalStructureCore1………………………………………… ..................………6
a. Company Demographic....................................................................................... 6
b. Diagram Oversight Management Process............................................................9
c. Diagram Quality Oversight Process......................................................................10
d. Diagram Information/Communication Process..................................................11
II. General TriageLogic Policy Core3
1. Establishing and Creating Policy and Procedures...........................................................12
2. Document Management Policy.........................................................................................14
3. Company Website policy ...................................................................................................16
III. Compliance Core	4,	5,10
1. Law and Regulatory Compliance .....................................................................................19
a. Compliance Plan Core4 .................................................................................. 19
b. HIPAA Compliance Policy .....................................................................................27
2. Inter-Departmental Coordination Core 5.........................................................................31
a. TriageLogic Meeting Structure Diagram .............................................................32
3. Marketing and Sales Communication Core10........................................................... 33
IV. Business Relations for Delegated Work Core 6.9
2
TRIAGELOGIC, LLC 2
Delegation Oversight Program
a. Delegation and Review Core	6	and8............................................................35
b. Selection of Delegate Core	7	and8 ...............................................................36
c. Delegation Oversight Core	6	and9 ................................................................38
V. Business Relationships with Clients Core11
Written Business Agreements/Client Contract Rev ie w ............................. 40
VI. Client Management and Relations Core 12, 17.28
1. Client Satisfaction/ End user Satisfaction ................................................... 42
2. Patient Evaluation Survey Sample............................................................... 44
3. Client Satisfaction Survey.............................................................................. 45
4. Quality Management Program.................................................................... 46
a. Quality Flow Diagram by Committee............................................. 51
b. Quality Improvement Projects......................................................... 54
VII. Data Integrity and Information Regulation Core 13.16
1. Information Management Core 13..........................................................55
2. Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery Core13,14,15, ..........................58
3. Information Security Policy Core 15 a b c.................................................61
4. HIPAA Compliance Policy Core 16 ..........................................................65
VIII. General Staff Employment Core 25 to 30
1. General Staff Employment Information ....................................................... 68
2. HIPPA Compliance Policy ............................................................................. 75
3. Staff Performance Appraisal Form................................................................ 78
4. Employee Personnel File ChecklistCore25,26 .........................................81
5. StaffOrientation/TrainingAttestationCore27 ..........................................82
6. Training Participation Form............................................................................. 83
IX. Clinical Staff Core 30.35
1. Clinical Staff Credentialing Core 30, 31 32 .............................................84
2. Financial Incentives Core33 .....................................................................88
3. Client and Consumer Access to Program Services Core 34..................89
4. Consumer and Medical Complaint process Core 35 ............................89
a. Incident Report Form......................................................................... 91
X. Consumer Protection and Empowerment Core37.40
1. Consumer Safety Mechanism Core 38 ........................................................100
2. Health Literacy Core 40 ................................................................................ 101
1. Welcome
Welcome to Policy and ProcedurePurpose/Interpretation
The purpose of this Manual is to provide employees of TriageLogic (“TL”) with general information
regarding the policies and procedures of the Company. Nothing in this manual or in any other documents
(such as benefit statements, performance evaluations, or any other written or verbal communications)
should be construed to create an employment agreement/contract (either expressed or implied) for
anything other than at-will employment.
Writing or Revising Policy or Procedure
If you are a TriageLogic employee who is writing or revising a policy or procedure, please consult section
# 2 of this manual: Policy and Procedure Development & Maintenance. The policy outlines the policy
and procedure formatting and organization, and the process for approval of policies and procedures.
About Our Company CORE2c
Today, TriageLogic is a leading provider of quality, affordable triage solutions. We are a physician-led
company that offers leading-edge nurse triage services.
We serve busy practices in need of a phone triage system for patients. Some of our physician groups are
part of a hospital or a health system. We service all locations in the United States. All groups of patients
(e.g., pediatric, adult, geriatric) are covered by TriageLogic.
Triage Logic Nurse Triage on Call provides telephone nurse triage coverage for providers and their
patients. CORE 2b
How it works:
1. Patient calls and talks to a triage representative
2. Nurse calls patient back and directs patient to the appropriate level of care
3. As the nurse handles the call, the system documents all the details and the encounter is sent to the
physician’s office
Key Features:
• Gold Standard Protocols from Schmitt-Thompson
• All calls recorded
• All licensed registered nurses
• Call back average time less than 30 minutes
Mission Statement CORE 2a
Our mission is to continue to lead the field of nurse triage. We commit our expertise, compassion and
reliability to services that exceed expectations of medical professionals and their patients.
“Taking care of our communities one call at a time”
5
CORE 2
Date of incorporation as legal entity: November 2006, Nashville, TN
Company Demographics CORE1
A. Advisory Board – The board serves as an advisory committee to help the CEO plan strategy and keep
up-to date with nursing, regulatory and other requirements.
Advisory Board Members
Charu Raheja, PhD – Chair and CEO
PhD: Finance, New York University, NY
Special interests: CEO compensation, corporate governance, and healthcare research
Ravi Raheja, MD – Medical Director and COO
MD: Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, NJ
Pediatric Residency: Schneider Children’s Hospital, NY
Special interests: General pediatrics, medical education and medical information technology
John Roberts, Esq.
JD: University of Minnesota Law School, MN
Partner, New Counsel, PLC, provider of legal and business advice to technology startups
Former Shareholder at Leonard, Street and Deinard, large corporate firm in Minneapolis, Minnesota
In-house legal positions, including General Counsel, Deputy General Counsel or Corporate Counsel
Texas Instruments, DSC Communications Corporation, Net Perceptions and ValueVision Media Inc.
(all publicly traded companies)
Shelley Rogers, RN
Associates in Nursing, Forsyth Technical Community College, NC
Previous Positions: Labor and Delivery Nurse at Forsyth Hospital, Behavioral Emotional Handicap
(BEH) Teacher’s Aide, NBHA District Director- District 6
Special interests: Youth Ministry and Missions
CORE	1	and 2d
B. Personnel types and number (professional, clinical, technical, administrative support, employee,
contractor, etc.):
Professional /Management
1. Executive (1) – The CEO plans, manages, and ensures the efficient implementation ofall
objectives, goals and mission of the company, assures company’s compliance with all city,
state, and federal laws, initiates all company policies and regulations, ensures the company’s
increasing profitability and relevance, and represents the company in all public events.
2. Operational / Administrative (1) – The COO manages all operational aspects of the company
including administrative, and reporting/evaluation systems and procedures, and assists the
CEO in the implementation of company objectives, goals and mission.
3. Medical / Clinical (4)
a) The Medical Director oversees all clinical staff training and continuing education, and,
along with the technological department develops new technologies to improve the
services of the company.
b) Nurse Directors ensure the efficiency and continuing education of nurses, ensures
compliance with the state board of nursing and state nurse practice requirements and
related regulations, coordinates and discusses with Medical Director and COO on number
and quality of phone calls served by the company
c) Nurse Managers manage nurses’ schedules, maintain and update nursingguidelines,
maintain nursing staff and ensures continuous availability of nurse service, conducts
planning, monitoring and evaluation with nurses, provides clinical support, ensures the
effective implementation and use of relevant software, ensures all office equipment and
supplies are available and working
d) Client Relations supervises the day-to-day management of all clients. Serves asthe
primary contact person for nurse triage clients and the point of contact between the nurse
managers, medical director and the clients.
Clinical (approximate 30 FTE’s or 75 Part Time) – Nurses who directly provide nurse advice
line to patients.
Technological/Technical (4) – These are various staff who: 1) design new technologies or
modules that become relevant as more practices use the software, 2) provide software support to
clients and ensure that all relevant technological systems are working efficiently all the time, 3)
ensure the security of all clients’ information, 4) provide training and support for intra-office
communication systems, and 5) website development.
Sales (1) - Conducts and follows up sales calls, and clinches business contracts.
Marketing (3) – Designs, implements, and analyzes marketing strategies and paraphernalia, and
designs and implements activities/strategies for continuing client relationships.
Administrative (2) – Files all company documents, prepares invoices, receipts and liquidation
reports, and conduct other office support such as mailing/posting, scanning, printing documents,
etc.
Chief Executive Name: Dr. CharuRaheja charu.raheja@triagelogic.com
Corporate Medical Director Name: Dr. RaviRaheja ravi.raheja@triagelogic.com
Compliance Officer Name: Julie Teague, CMAA julie.teague@triagelogic.com
HR	Payroll	and	Benefits
OASIS
Chair	and	CEO
Phone	RN
Nurse	Managers
Corporate	Counsel
OversightManagementProcess
Customer	Relations	
Manager
Clinical	Software	
Training
Software	Oversight
Graphics	/	Web	Design
Sales	and	Accounts	
Manager
PRN	
Nurse	Managers
Medical	Director URAC	and	Compliance	
Officer Marketing	Director COO
Phone	RN	Nurse	Manager
Rules	&	Regulations
Clinical	Training
Nursing	Quality
Client	Relations	Manager
Client	Feedback
Pt	&	Client	Satisfaction	Surveys
Call	Stats
PRN	Nurse	Manager
Rules	&	Regulations
Clinical	Training
Nursing	Quality
Quality Nursing OversightProcess All report to the Medical Director and COO. If there are any complaints, these are sent to
the Client Relations Manager for resolution, and forwarded to the Medical Director for discussion and further attention, if needed. Rules and
Regulations Managers are informed of the cases in order to avoid similar complaints in the future, or in order to formulate new policies
procedures, if necessary. These are then reported to theCEO.
Medical	Director	/	COO
CEO	&	Quality	Committee	
Members:
Medical	Director/COO
Phone	RN	Nurse	Manager
Sales	&	Accounts	Manager
Compliance	Supervisor
Chief	Compliance	Officer
Charu	Raheja
Compliance	Officerr
Julie	Teague
Corporate	Counsel
John	Roberts
Information	Technology
Regulations
Quality	of	Servers	(Speed	and	
Efficiency)
HIPPA	Compliance
Software
Document	Management/IT
Management
Report	on	Sales	and	Accounts
Report	on	IT	and	Nursing
Information / Communication Flow
Medical Director / COO meets with Sales/Accounts, IT, and Nursing, then reports to CEO. Compliance Officer-cum-Chair and CEO meets with
Marketing and Corporate Counsel and shares with Medical Director/COO the results of the meetings.
Planning /	Strategy	/	Regulatory
Quality	Compliance
Ensure	the	Efficient	
Implementation	of	Policy	and	
Procedure
Treasurer’s	Report
Approval	of	Policy	and	
Procedures
Delegation
Credentialing
PRN	/	Phone	RN
Regulatory	Updates	and
Requirements	For	Nursing
Compliance	Issues
Patient	Complaints
Quality	of	Patient	Service
Training	and	Education
Credentialing
12
General TriageLogic Policy
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
X		Triage Logic
			Phone RN X PRN
Effective	Date:
11/13/13
Name of
Policy/Procedure: Policy &Procedure
Development	andMaintenance
Most	Recent	
RevisionDate: 9/27/16
Policy	#: 1 Most	Recent
Review:
I. POLICY
TriageLogic will maintain a policy and procedure manual online. A new electronic copy of the P/P in its
entirety will be emailed to replace the existing manual should a revision or update occur. The P/P will be
emailed to the managers and the managers are responsible to distribute to necessary staff. The
policy/procedure will be emailed to PRN and other staff as it relates to their job.
TriageLogic (TL) is dedicated to standardizing the way business is conducted among all staff (employed
and contract). When people do things the same way every time, they eventually become able to complete
the process in a shorter amount of time, which means they can do more work in the same amount of time.
Consistency also breeds confidence. Consistent methods assure clients that the company will handle
accounts with the same care and precision during each interaction. Consistency helps employees and
alike know what to expect when faced with a given situation.
TriageLogic has employees in multiple locations and/or employees that work different shifts, staff that
leave the company and new employees will join the company. The easiest way to communicate
expectations and processes to all employees without missing anyone, leaving information out or being
inconsistent is to write and distribute a formal policy and procedure document. Making sure that everyone
has access to the same information assures quality management.
All policies and procedures will be reviewed and approved by the Planning/Strategy/Regulatory
Committee annually, between the months of August and October. This includes all policies and
procedures related to the following: Clinical Policies, Quality, and IT. CORE	3c. Since policies and
procedures can change throughout the year, new policies and procedure revisions can be brought to any
weekly committee for approval and documented in the minutes.
Depending on the change made to the policy/procedure, employee training will take place at individual
monthly meetings. In addition, when the policy is updated, the employee will receive a current copy of
the policy/procedure manual in its entirety and will attest they received it and will comply.
A standardized format for policies and procedures will not be required at TriageLogic as some forms are
better than others for a given process; however, the following are required of every TL policy and
procedure.
TRIAGELOGIC, LLC
CORE 3
13
Effective dates, review dates (including the date of the most recent revision) and an approval signature from
the Planning/Strategy/RegulatoryCommittee.
CORE	3 (d)
The Effective Date is defined as the date upon which the policy or procedure is to take effect. This date
may be different from the date upon which the policy or procedure was recorded with a revision date.
The Most Recent Revision is defined as assigning a unique revision number to a policy or procedure and
dating it. These numbers are generally assigned in increasing order and correspond to a newer version of a
policy or procedure. Revision control is used for keeping track of incrementally different versions of
policies and procedures.
The Most Recent Review date is the date that the policy or procedure was reviewed or evaluated. The
revision date does not change on the policy or procedure unless a revision was made to it.
Revision of an Existing Policy/Procedure
Effective Date: 09/1/13
Most Recent Revision 10/1/13
Most Recent Review: 10/1/13
Related Documents
See Master List of Policies andProcedures
14
II. Document Management Policy (Managing Documents) CORE	3a,	c, d
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
X		Triage Logic
			Phone RN
X PRN
Effective	Date:11/13/13
Name	of	Policy/Procedure:Document
Management
Most	Recent	RevisionDated:
Policy	#: 2 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
A. PURPOSE
This policy establishes the framework under which official records and documents of TriageLogic are
created and managed.
B. POLICY
Records and documents created, received or used by Triage Logic staff in the normal course of business,
including all email communication, are the property of the Company, unless otherwise agreed. This
includes reports compiled by external consultants commissioned by theCompany.
The	Company	email	system	is	Company	property,	and	as	such,	is	subject	to	monitoring.	System	monitoring	is	done	
for	employee	protection	and	the	protection	of	the	rights	or	property	of	the	Company.	
As	noted	above,	electronic	mail	is	subject	at	all	times	to	monitoring,	and	the	release	of	specific	information	is	
subject	to	applicable	laws	and	Company	rules,	policies	and	procedures	on	confidentiality.	Existing	rules,	policies	
and	procedures	governing	the	sharing	of	confidential	information	also	apply	to	the	sharing	of	information	via	
commercial	software.	
Triage Logic’s official records constitute its corporate memory, and as such are a vital asset for ongoing
operations, and for providing evidence of business activities and transactions. They assist in making better
informed decisions and improving business practice by providing an accurate record of what has occurred
before.
Therefore, records are to be:
• Managed in a consistent and structured manner
• Managed in accordance with Triage Logic guidelines and procedures
• Stored in a secure manner; (Call Center Software System)
And documents are to be:
15
• Created and managed by authorized officers and their direct subordinates
Recordkeeping and Document Management System
TriageLogic’s recordkeeping and document management system assists staff to capture records, protect
their integrity and authenticity, provide access through time, dispose of records no longer required in the
conduct of its business, and ensure records of enduring value are retained. It also facilitates the creation,
version control, authority of official corporate documents.
TriageLogic’s recordkeeping and document management system is managed by the office of the CEO.
TriageLogic has authorized recordkeeping and document management system in either paper form, Sugar
Sync and in its Call Center SoftwareSystem.
All staff is to use the Call Center Software and Sugar Sync to ensure that:
• official records and documents are routinely captured and subjected to the relevant retention
and disposal authority;
• access to records and documents is managed according to authorized access and appropriate
retention times regardless of location;
• records and documents are protected from unauthorized alteration or deletion;
• documents are version controlled as required;
All staff, who create, receive and keep records and documents as part of their daily work, should do so in
accordance with established policies, procedures and standards. Staff should not undertake disposal of
records without authority – and only in accordance with authorized disposal methods. 
16
••••
17
III. Company Website Policy CORE 3a
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
X		Triage Logic
			Phone RN
X PRN
Effective	Date:4/16/2013
Name of Policy/Procedure: WebsitePolicy Most	Recent	RevisionDate:4/16/2013
Policy	#: 3 Most	Recent	Review: 9/27/16
PURPOSE
This policy explains our information practices, defines your privacy options and describes how your
information is collected andused.
This policy covers the website at http://www.triagelogic.com (the “TL Website”). The TL Website is
owned and operated by Triage Logic Management and Consulting, LLC ("TLMC"), a Tennessee limited
liability company (“TL”). Should you have privacy questions or concerns, send an email
to info@triagelogic.com.
By using visiting the TL Website, you agree to the collection and use of information in the manner
described in this policy. TL shall have right at any time and without prior notice, at its sole discretion, to
revise this policy. If we make material changes to this policy, we will notify you at this TL Website, by
email, by means of a notice the next time you log in to the TL Website, or by means of a notice on the TL
Website homepage. Such revisions and additions shall be effective immediately upon notice. You are
responsible for reviewing the TL Website periodically for any modification to this policy. Any access or
use of the TL Website by you after notice of modifications to this policy shall constitute and be
deemed to be your agreement to such modifications.
The Information we collect
This policy applies to all information collected on the TL Website and any information you provide to TL.
You will most likely provide us personal information to us when you request information from TL, register
as a user of TL Website or participate in certain TL promotions or events. The personal information we may
collect includes: your name, address, email address, name of employer and phone numbers.
Posting or SendingInformation
The TL Website may permit you to post information to the TL Website or send information to TL. When
you post information to the TL Website, other site visitors can also view that information. We urge you to
exercise caution when providing personally identifiable information to TL or the TL Website.
18
Our Collection of Your Data
In addition to the personal information you supply, we may collect certain information to evaluate how
visitors, guests, and customers use the TL Website. We collect data to make the TL Website work better
for you in the following ways: to improve the design of the TL Website, to provide personalization on the
TL Website and to evaluate the performance of our marketing programs. The technologies we may use to
gather this non-personal information may include “IP” addresses, “cookies”, browser detection, and
“weblogs”.
How we Use Information
Our primary goal in collecting your information is to provide you with a personalized, relevant, and positive
experience with the TLWebsite.
You can register on the TL Website to receive promotions and updates, or to be contacted for product
information purposes. You can control your privacy preferences regarding such marketing communications
(see the section below entitled “Your Privacy Preferences”).
From time to time, you may be invited to participate in optional customer surveys or promotions, and TL
may request that you provide some or all of the above listed personal information in those surveys or
promotions. We use information collected from surveys and promotions to learn about our customers in
order to improve our services and develop new products and services of interest to our customers.
IP addresses define the Internet location of computers and help us better understand the geographic
distribution of our visitors and customers and manage the performance of the TL Website. Cookies are tiny
files placed onto the hard drive of your computer when you visit the TL Website, so we can immediately
recognize you when you return to the TL Website and deliver content specific to your interests. You may
modify your browser preferences to accept all cookies, be notified when a cookie is set, or reject all
cookies. Please consult your browser instructions for information on how to modify your choices about
cookies. If you modify your browser preferences, certain features of the TL Website may not be available
to you.
We may detect the type of web browser you are using to optimize the performance of the TL Website and
to understand the mix of browsers used by our visitors, guests, and customers. To learn about how people
use our site, we examine weblogs, which show the paths people take through the TL Website and how long
they spend in certain areas.
TL may contract with unaffiliated third parties to provide services such as customer communications,
website analytics and other services. When we do this, we may provide your personally identifiable
information to third parties only to provide those services, and they are not authorized to use your
personally identifiable information for any other purpose.
19
Our Commitment to DataSecurity
Access to your data is limited to authorized TL staff or approved vendors. Although total security does not
exist on the Internet, TL shall make commercially reasonable efforts to safeguard the information that you
submit to TL or that TL collects.
Use of the TL Website byChildren
The TL Website is not intended for use by children under the age of 13.
Your PrivacyPreferences
When you sign up as a registered user of the TL Website you may begin receiving marketing
communications such as e-mail newsletters, product and service updates and promotions. Our customers
generally find this type of information useful. If you do not want to receive these updates, you must “optout” by unchecking the “Add me to the mailing list” box on the registration page, or should you choose to
opt-out after registering, you can use any of the following methods: select the “unsubscribe” link at the
bottom of the email and follow the opt-out instructions; or send an email to unsubscribe@triagelogic.com.
How to Access or Correct Your Information
You can access and maintain your personally identifiable information that we collect by sending us an
email to info@triagelogic.com. To protect your privacy and security, we require a user ID and password to
verify your identity before granting access or making corrections to such personally identifiable
information.
Disclosure ofInformation
We reserve the right to disclose your personally identifiable information as required by law and when we
believe that disclosure is necessary to protect our rights and/or comply with a judicial proceeding, court
order or legal process. It is also possible that TL would sell the company or all or substantially all of its
assets. In any transaction of this kind, customer information, including your personally identifiable
information, may be among the assets that are transferred. If we decide to so transfer your personally
identifiable information, you will be notified by an email sent to the last known email address in our files
and/or by notice posted on the TL Website.
Privacy and OtherWebsites
The TL Website may contain links to other websites. TL is not responsible for the privacy practices of these
other sites. We encourage you to be aware when you leave our site, and to read the privacy statements of
each web site that collects personally identifiable information. Some linked sites may be co-branded with
our trademarks and those of our business partners. They may have the look and feel
of www.triagelogic.com, but the URL in your browser window will indicate that you are visiting a different
site. This policy only applies to information collected by TL.
Company website policy will at all times be available in TL website. Currently, it is listed in the following
area: http://www.triagelogic.com/Privacy
19
2. Compliance –
1. Law and Regulatory Compliance – General
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
X		Triage Logic
			 Triage	LogicManagement
		X Phone
RN X PRN
Effective	Date:11/13/13
Name	of	Policy/Procedure:Regulatory
Compliance Policy
Most	Recent	RevisionDate:10/30/15
Policy	#: 4 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
I. PURPOSE
This policy applies to Triage Logic Management & Consulting, LLC (“TL”) and shall apply to all
employees of TL, agents of TL and employees of TL subcontractors (collectively the “Service Providers”).
II. POLICY
The purpose of the policy is to establish a process to report Potential Compliance Issues, including any
potential identified issues or questions associated with TL’s Standards of Conduct, TL policies and
procedures, laws and regulations relating to Federal health care programs, including but not limitedto
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and URAC. Furthermore, to the extent that
there is a potential violation of a criminal, civil, or administrative law, it is the intent of this policy to allow
issues to be promptly and thoroughly investigated and appropriate corrective action to be implemented.
PCI - Potential Compliance Issues. All individuals are expected to report PCI immediately upon discovery
or notification of the same. Reports can be made to an immediate supervisor, department director, Facility
Compliance officer, Chief Compliance Officer or designee.
If reports are made to a supervisor or department director, that individual is expected to immediately
forward the report to the Medical Director and to the CEO.
III. PROCEDURE
a. Compliance Plan for TriageLogic, LLC – CORE 4
TriageLogic, LLC (“TL”) voluntarily implements a compliance program to foster an environment of
ethical and legal behavior in support of the mission of TL. The main elements of TriageLogic’s
Compliance Plan are:
1. Commitment to Compliance
a.) Standards of Conduct
b.) Marketing
CORE 4	& 5
20
c.) Retention of Records/Documentation
2. Designation of a Compliance Officer
3. Training and Education for Compliance
4. Communication of Compliance Guidelines
5. Disciplinary Guidelines
6. Auditing and Monitoring
7. Correction Action
Federal and State Rules Verification Process
21
Additional:
1. Annual meeting with accountant to discuss any changes in law and need for new
filings (2nd quarter of the year).
2. Meeting with John Roberts upon renewal of contracts or for new contracts.
1. Commitment to Compliance
a.) Standards of Conduct
TriageLogic promotes adherence to the Compliance Program as a major element in the
performance evaluation of all staff members. TriageLogic employees are bound to comply, in
all official acts and duties, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards of conduct,
including, but not limited to laws, rules, regulations, and directives of the federal government
and the state of Florida, URAC standards and rules, and policies and procedures of
TriageLogic.
These current and future standards of conduct are incorporated by reference in this
Compliance Plan.
All candidates for employment shall undergo a reasonable and prudent investigation. Criminal
background checks will be performed on all staff that will have access to PHI, along with
verification of licensure status, certification credentials verification and reference checks, to the
extent permitted by law. Due care will be used in the recruitment and hiring process to prevent
the appointment to positions with substantial discretionary authority, persons whose record
(professional licensure, credentials, prior employment) gives reasonable cause to believe the
individual has a propensity to fail to adhere to applicable standards of conduct. CORE	4 b
All new employees will receive orientation and a copy of TriageLogic’s compliance policies
and procedures. Participation is a required training condition of employment.
Every employee will receive periodic training as changes or revisions occur to the initial
compliance training received uponhire.
In addition, all employees with access to patient information or any other private information
are required to sign our standard HIPAA agreement (as shown below at the end of this table).
Non-compliance with the plan or violations will result in sanctioning of the involved
employee(s) up to, and including, termination of employment.
b.) Marketing
TriageLogic will promote only honest, straightforward, fully informative, and non-deceptive
marketing.
22
c.) Retention ofRecords/Documentation
Triage Logic will ensure that all records required by federal and/or state law are created and
maintained. All records will be maintained for a period of no less than seven years. Audio
records will be kept for a period of 3 months. Documentation of compliance effortswill
include staff meeting minutes, memoranda concerning compliance, problems identified and
corrective actions taken, the results of any investigations, and documentation supportive of
assessment findings and plan of care.
2. Designation of a Compliance Officer
TriageLogic has a designated compliance officer to serve as the coordinator of all compliance
activities.
The responsibilities of the compliance officer are:
• Overseeing and monitoring the implementation of the compliance program
• Reporting as needed to the Medical Director/COO and subsequent affected committees of
compliance issues, policy and procedure changes/revisions.
• Developing and distributing or giving to the CEO to distribute all written compliance
policies and procedures to all affected employees.
• Periodically revising the program in light of changes in the needs of the organization and in
the law; and changes in policies and procedures of government.
• Developing and coordinating educational and training programs that focus on the elements
of the compliance program and seeks to ensure that all employees are knowledgeable of,
and comply with, pertinent federal and state standards.
The compliance officer has the authority to review all documents and other information relative to
compliance activities, including, but not limited to, records concerning marketing efforts,
arrangements and agreements with clients, HIPAA documentation and patient data.
3. Conducting Training and Educational Programs CORE (b)
TriageLogic requires all employees to attend specific training upon hire and on a p.r.n. basis
thereafter. This will include training in federal and state regulations, program requirements,
policies and procedures. The training will emphasize TL’s commitment to compliance with these
legal requirements and policies. The amount of training will depend on the degree of compliance
issues handled by the employee based on the job description.
4. Communication CORE 4c
TriageLogic has an open-door policy where employees may seek clarification from the compliance
officer in the event of any confusion or questions regarding a policy or procedure.
23
Any person who has reason to believe that a potential problem or questionable practice is or may
be in existence should report the circumstance to the Compliance Officer. Such reports may be
made verbally or in writing, and may be made on an anonymous basis. The Compliance Officer
will promptly document and investigate reported matters that suggest substantial violations of
policies, regulations, statutes, or program requirements to determine their veracity. The
compliance officer will maintain a log of such reports, including the nature of the investigation and
its results. All compliance issues will be shared with the Medical Director/COO promptly.
The Compliance Officer will work closely with legal counsel who can provide guidance regarding
complex legal and management issues.
Compliance officer or the CEO will report any changes to policy and new laws and regulations
during the general management meeting. Such matters will be documented in the minutes and
emailed to all employees who are affected by the new law or policy.
5. Disciplinary Guidelines
All members of TriageLogic will be held accountable for failing to comply with applicable
standards, laws, and procedures. Supervisors and/or managers will be held accountable for the
foreseeable compliance failures of theirsubordinates.
The supervisor or manager will be responsible for taking appropriate disciplinary actions in the
event an employee fails to comply with applicable regulations or policies. The disciplinary
process for violations of compliance programs will be administered according to practice protocols
(generally oral warning, written warning, suspension without leave, leading to termination)
depending upon the seriousness of theviolation.
If the deviation occurred due to legitimate, explainable reasons, the compliance officer and
supervisor/manager may want to limit disciplinary action or take no action. If the deviation
occurred because of improper procedures, misunderstanding of rules, includingsystemic
problems, the compliance officer will take immediate actions to correct the problem.
After receipt of an investigative report, the Compliance Officer and Medical Director/COO shall
determine the action to be taken upon the matter.
6. Auditing and Monitoring
The Compliance Officer will conduct evaluation of compliance on an as needed basis and
regularly report to the Medical Director/COO. Compliance officer is responsible for:
a) Keeping track of laws and regulations in the jurisdictions that the companyconducts
business. This may involve seeking guidance from an outside counsel on the current laws
24
Chief	Compliance	Officer
Charu	Raheja
Compliance	Supervisor
Julie	Teague
Corporate	Counsel
John	Roberts
Information	Technology
Regulations
Quality	of	Servers	(Speed	and	
Efficiency)
HIPPA	Compliance
Software
Document	Management/IT
Management
Report	on	Sales	and	Accounts
Report	on	IT	and	Nursing
and regulations, seeking help and guidance from the medical director, the nurse supervisor,
or any other party that can help with information on rules and regulations. Currently,
TriageLogic has a contract with Corporate Counsel to assist TL in staying abreast of law
and regulations. Corporate Counsel is responsible for bringing to the attention ofTL
applicable laws and regulations related to their business model. CORE	4a	TheMedical
Director is also responsible for keeping track of laws and regulations related to nursing and
reporting it to the CEO. CORE 4b
b) Ensuring compliance with the law and policy by evaluating documents, auditing fillings,
etc. Core 4b
c) Searching available databases such as:
https://www.gsaig.gov/node/31 and	
www.dol.gov/ofccp/regs/compliance/preaward/debarlst.htm (businesses)	and
https://www.npdb.hrsa.gov/hcorg/pds.jsp,	and https://exclusions.oig.hhs.gov/ to
ensure that employees have not been barred from working in healthcare, upon hire. An
attestation will be signed by each person performing the applicable checks.
See chart below on the compliance requirements and reporting (Figure 3a
Planning	/	Strategy	/	Regulatory
Quality	Compliance
Ensure	the	Efficient	
Implementation	of	Policy	and	
Procedure
Treasurer’s	Report
Approval	of	Policy	and	
Procedures
Delegation
Credentialing
PRN	/	Phone	RN
Regulatory	Updates	and
Requirements	For	Nursing
Compliance	Issues
Patient	Complaints
Quality	of	Patient	Service
Training	and	Education
Credentialing
25
7. Corrective Action
Violations of TriageLogic’s compliance program, failure to comply with applicable state or
federal law, and other types of misconduct may threaten TL’s status as a reliable, honest, and
trustworthy business. Detected, but uncorrected, misconduct may seriously endanger the mission,
reputation, and legal status of TriageLogic. Consequently, upon reports or reasonable indications
of suspected noncompliance, the Compliance Officer must initiate an investigation to determine
whether a material violation of applicable laws or requirements has occurred.
The steps in the internal investigation may include interviews and a review of relevant
documentation. Records of the investigation should contain documentation of the alleged
violation, a description of the investigative process, and the documents reviewed, the results of
the investigation, and the corrective actions implemented.
If the results of the internal investigation identify a problem, the response may be development of
a corrective action plan, and reporting to the affected parties. Corrective action should be
completed within 30 business days. CORE 4c
This compliance plan may be altered or amended in writing only with the concurrence of the
Compliance Officer. The adoption of this Compliance Plan has been approved and authorized as
designed below.
Charu G. Raheja 1/18/17
Charu G. Raheja, PhD, CEO Date
Ravi K. Raheja 1/18/17
Ravi K. Raheja, MD, Medical Director,COO Date
Julie Teague 1/18/17
Julie Teague, CMAA, Compliance Officer Date
26
This	policy/procedure appliesto:
X	Triage Logic
X		Phone RN
			PRN
Effective	Date:2/21/14
Name of Policy/Procedure: Verification of State,
Federal and Nursing Laws forTriageLogic
Most	Recent	RevisionDated:
Policy	#: 37 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
I. Purpose
To understand what state and federal laws and regulations apply to providing nurse triage services
and to ensure that these laws and regulations are followed by staff of TriageLogic. To implement a
process to monitor changes to state and federal laws related to nurse triage services and put these
changes into effect.
II. Procedure
A. Steps for Initial Entry Into a State To Provide Nurse Triage Services
1. Determine if the state participates in the nursing compact or requires state specific
licensure for the nurses providing nurse triage services.
2. Review the State Board of Nursing to see what the nurse requirements are for that state to
practice telephone triage nursing. Determine if there are any special laws on what a nurse
can or cannot do in that state related to triage services.
3. Check with Legal Counsel to see what the corporate requirements are for offering triage
services in that state. (For example: in California you must file as an LLC to do business
in that state).
4. Use NexisLexis and/or Westlaw and/or internet search to research any state and federal
laws related to nurse triage.
Once the four steps above have been completed, the results will be added to the crosswalk
for annual monitoring of each states rules and regulations.
B. Steps for Annual Monitoring after Initial Entry Into a State
1. The Compliance Officer or an RN within the company will review the states nurses’
license requirement (compact or state specific) and review the board of nursing to see if
there have been any interval changes for nurse triage requirements.
2. Check with legal counsel to see if there has been any change to the state laws to provide
services in that state.
3. Use NexisLexis and/or Westlaw and/or internet search to research any state and federal
laws related to nurse triage.
The Corporate Compliance Officer will be responsible for monitoring on a yearly basis all
State, Federal and NursingLaws.
27
The Compliance Officer along with the CEO and Medical Director will review any changes
to policies and procedures that need to be made to meet new requirements.
Affected staff will receive education on any new rule or law that may affect their position.
The Compliance Officer will verify that all new rules and regulations are being followed
with mechanisms that deem appropriate to given changes (i.e., case audits, etc. as needed).
TriageLogic HIPAA Compliance Policy (updated December 2012)
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
X	Triage Logic
			Phone RN
X PRN
Effective	Date:12/2012
Name of Policy/Procedure: HIPAACompliance Most	Recent	Revision	Date: 12/2012
Policy	#: 5 Most	Recent	Review:9/27/16
This TRIAGE HIPAA COMPLIANCE POLICY of Triage Logic Management & Consulting, LLC
(“Triage”) shall apply to all employees of Triage, agents of Triage and employees of Triage
subcontractors (collectively the “Service Providers”). All agents with access to patient data must sign
this document.
PURPOSE OF THIS POLICY. Service Providers are providing various health care servicesfor
Triage (the “Services”) which may involve the observation or use of patients/patient records of
hospitals, clinics or other health care organizations or entities that have entered into services agreements
with Triage (these various health care groups shall be collectively referred to as the “Covered Entities”).
In the course of providing such Services, Service Providers from time to time have access to or
possession of Covered Entity’s patient protected health information or “PHI,” as such term is
hereinafter defined. This Policy shall set forth the terms and conditions pursuant to whichService
Providers shall use, secure and keep in confidence such PHI.
1. Definitions. For the purposes of this Policy, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
(a) Electronic Protected Health Information or “EPHI“. A subset of PHI, consisting of any
PHI that is transmitted by electronic media or maintained in electronic media.
(b) Individual. The person who is the subject of the PHI, and has the same meaning as the term
“individual” as defined by the HIPAA Regulations.
28
(c) HIPAA Regulations. Those regulations codified at Title 45 of the Code of Federal
Regulations (C.F.R.) and relating to privacy and security of PHI.
(d) Protected Health Information or “PHI”. Any information concerning an Individual,
whether oral or recorded in any form or medium: (1) that relates to the past, present or future
physical or mental condition of such Individual; the provision of health care to such
Individual; or the past, present or future payment for the provision of health care tosuch
Individual; and (2) that identifies such Individual with respect to which there is a reasonable
basis to believe the information can be used to identify such Individual, and shall have the
meaning given to such term under the HIPAA Regulations.
2. Disclosures and Use of PHI. Subject to this Policy, Service Providers shall not the use the PHI
except as necessary to provide the Services. Service Providers hereby agrees that thePHI
provided or made available to it shall not be further used or disclosed other than as permitted or
required by this Policy. Without limiting the foregoing, Service Providers agrees: (i) not to
share PHI with anyone not directly involved in the patient’s care or treatment; (ii) not to discuss
PHI in areas where it may be overheard; (iii) not to access any PHI without specific direction by
Triage; (iv) not to attempt access to PHI for personal reasons; (v) to inform Triage ofany
personal relationships which Service Providers may have with a patient or patient’sfamily
whose PHI Service Providers may access; (vi) if allowed access to EPHI by Triage orthe
Covered Entity, to clear computer screens of PHI before leaving the screen; (vii) to return any
PHI provided on paper to the professional staff member or employee who provided it orto
dispose of it within the facility using a shred-it box or as otherwise directed by the person who
provided it; (viii) not to store or transmit any PHI using a portable device or any other
electronic means; (ix) not to remove PHI in any form from the Covered Entity’s facility; and
(x) not to make any photographs, videos, voice recordings or any other reproduction of any PHI.
3. Service Providers Obligations.
(a) Right of Access to PHI. Service Providers and its representatives and employees shall
forward all Individual requests for access to PHI to Triage within one (1) business days
of receipt.
(b) Amendment of PHI. Service Providers shall forward all requests for amendments to
an Individual’s PHI to Triage within one (1) business days of receipt.
(c) Accounting of Disclosures. Service Providers shall forward all requests for an
accounting of disclosures of PHI to Triage within one (1) business days of receipt.
(d) Reports of Improper Use or Disclosure and Cooperation. Service Providers shall
report in writing to Triage within one (1) business day of discovery any use or
disclosure of PHI not provided for or allowed by this Policy. Service Providersshall
cooperate with Triage and the Covered Entity in any review/investigation of an actual
or potential breach of HIPAA privacy or security regulations.
29
4. Termination and Breach
(a) Immediate Termination. In regard to Triage employees, Triage reserves the rights to
discipline any employee of Triage that has breached this Policy, including, the right to
terminate such employee’s employment with Triage. In regard to Triage
subcontractors and agents, Triage reserves the right to terminate their agreement with
such subcontractors and agents if they breach this Policy, and to seek such relief
allowed by the contract with such subcontractor or agent and applicable law.
(b) Injunctive Relief. Notwithstanding any rights or remedies provided for in this Policy,
Triage shall be entitled to obtain temporary and permanent injunctive relief from any
court of competent jurisdiction to prevent or stop the unauthorized use or disclosure of
PHI by Service Providers.
(c) Return or Destruction of PHI. Upon the termination or expiration of Service
Providers’ employment, agency or subcontract relationship with Triage, Service
Providers hereby agrees to return to Triage all PHI received from, or created or
received by Service Providers, from or on behalf of Covered Entity.
5. General Provisions
(a) State Law Preemption. Certain provisions of state law relating to privacy of PHI may
not be preempted by, and may supersede, the HIPAA Regulations. With respect to
such provisions of state law not preempted by the HIPAA Regulations, Service
Providers shall maintain full and complete compliance with all state privacy
requirements.
(b) Property Rights. All PHI shall be and remain the property of Triage or the Covered
Entity. Service Providers agrees that it shall not acquire any title or rights to any PHI.
(c) Changes. This Policy may be unilaterally modified by Triage in response to new
statutory or regulatory requirements related to HIPAA, the HIPAA Regulations or other
applicable state or federal law relating to security and privacy of PHI. Any ambiguity
in the language contained in this Policy shall be interpreted consistent withHIPAA
Regulations.
Agreed to and Acknowledgedby:
By:
(Signature)
Name:
(Print or Type)
Company:
Date:
30
2. Inter-Departmental Coordination – CORE 5
Interdepartmental communication in a nurse triage setting is fundamental to the provision of quality patient
care. Effective communication modes are important because they result in the improvement of patient care.
TriageLogic implements the following processes for interdepartmental communication:
Regular Department/Team Meetings. Discuss progress over the past week, what lies ahead, and use the
opportunity to give positive feedback and improve morale. See for example, TriageLogic’s Management
meetings.
Team Briefing. This is a way of passing information from the top of the business down to all employees,
and allowing employees to send feedback to the top management.
Interdepartmental/Interdisciplinary Teams. Occasionally, we foster communication across departments
and functions by creating teams to work on projects such as identifying cost savings or improved quality.
Newsletters. TriageLogic publishes newsletters with contributions from employees and information about
current activities within the company. We publish both newsletters designed for outside audience as well as
internal newsletters.
Meeting Minutes. We document action items and who is responsible for completing them at the end of
meetings.
Email.
Social Networking. TriageLogic uses for technologies such as http://www.twitter.com and Facebook to
communicate companyinformation.
31
Marketing
Review	of	marketing	&	
sales	materials,	
Compliance	with	
marketing	laws,	Quality	
of	marketing	materials
Presiding	Officer
COO
Members
Marketing	Manager
Web	/	Product	Designer
Chair	and	CEO
Information	
Technology
Regulations,	Quality	of	
servers	(Speed	&	
efficiency),	HIPAA	
Compliance
Presiding	Officer
Medical	Director/COO
Members
Head	of	IT
Corporate	Counsel
TriageLogic Meeting Structure
Sales
Presiding	Officer
COO
Members
Sales	and	Accounts
Manager
PRN	 /	Phone	RN
Regulatory	updates	&	
nursing	requirements,	
Compliance	issues,	
Patient	complaints,	
Quality	of	patient	service
Presiding	Officer
Medical	Director/COO
Members
Client	Relations	Manager
PRN	Directors
Nurse	Managers
Planning	/	Strategy	/	Regulatory
(Annually)
Quality	Compliance,	Treasurer’s	Report,	
Approval	of	Policy	and	Procedures
Presiding	Officer
CEO
Members
Medical	Director	/	COO
Compliance	Supervisor
Quality	(Quarterly)
Progress	Reports,	recommended	changes	
in	business	implementation,	rationale	
behind	changes,	evaluation	of	
PRN/Phone	RN	quality	of	care	&	integrity	
of	data	inputs
Presiding	Officer
CEO	and/or	Compliance	Supervisor
Members
Medical	Director/COO
Client	Relations	Manager
Nurse	Manager
Sales	and	Accounts	Manager
Management
Report	on	sales	and	
accounts,	Report	on	IT	
and	nursing
Presiding	Officer
Chair	/	CEO
Members
Medical	Director	/	COO
Sales	and	Accounts	
Manager
Marketing	Manager
Web/Product	Designer	
Management	Support
32
3. Marketing and Sales Communication – CORE 10
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
X		Triage Logic
			PRN
X			Phone RN
Effective	Date: 11/13/13
Name of Policy/Procedure: Marketing and Sales
Communications
Most	Recent	RevisionDate:
Policy	#: 6 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
IV. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy and procedure is to establish the lines of responsibility for, and the standard of,
TriageLogic’s (TL) branding, marketing and communications efforts to its clients and consumers. This
policy and procedure applies to all TL divisions, partners, departments and programs.
V. POLICY
The goal of TriageLogic’s marketing and sales communications policy is to produce both internal and
external messages of high quality that are consistent with TL’s mission, branding, positioning and
strategic priorities.
These policies/procedures are intendedto:
• Maximize opportunities to enhance TL’s visibility;
• Ensure all information is consistent with TL’s design and editorial standards;
• Provide central resources to assist all TL departments and programs;
• Integrate efforts between all areas of TL to optimize creativity in design and message, as
well as to improve information flow, ensuring compliance;
• Ensure TL is efficiently leveraging its marketing and advertising investments at all levels
and in all areas;
• Make information flow more efficiently; and
• Reduce miscommunication.
VI. PROCEDURE
Effective communications are central to the success of TL. For TL to properly communicate with a
consistent voice to its clients and consumers, it is essential that the marketing and communications
activities of TL be coordinated through one central area, the Marketing Committee embedded within the
Office of the Chair and CEO. The Marketing Committee has the final approval authority for all
marketing and sales communications for the company.
The Chair/CEO participates in the marketing meeting and is charged with oversight for the development
of marketing and communications strategies, and for coordinating the external communications activities
of TL. A marketing representative also reports marketing activities and plans during the management
33
meeting to ensure coordination of marketing work with the company goals and safeguard against possible
misrepresentations. CORE	10	A	andB
All external communications activities of TL will be coordinated through, and approved by, the
Marketing Committee. These activities include, but are not limited to:
• Publications (including print and electronic “e-publications”);
• Logos and unit identity;
• Advertising (The term advertising includes traditional media channels – TV, radio,billboard,
magazine, newspaper, etc.) as well as marketing communications that utilize new media channels,
including websites, email solicitations, product placement and other activities involved in
marketing TL.
• General media relations (distribution of press releases, development of external newswires,
faculty expert databases and all other activities related to media relations);
• Promotional videos;
• Primary TriageLogic web pages;
• Emergency communications;
• Market research; and
• Social Media.
The Marketing Committee assists with all TriageLogic communications to TL staff, PRN, and TLM (for
software related marketing, ensuring that the TL image is accurately and positively portrayed in news,
promotional materials, activities and events. TriageLogic emphasizes a collaborative approach through
multiple communications networks, guided by the Marketing Committee and the Marketing andSales
Communications policy and procedure. Regular meetings promote a spirit of intellectual andcreative
collaboration to optimize excellence and creativity in design and messaging, and compliance with policy.
Regular meetings also help TL to respond quickly should a problem arise we will respond by taking down
the information and informing affected parties if necessary. Correction will be made as soon as possible and at
maximum, within 45 business days. CORE 10d
All marketing and sales communication materials will be reviewed at least annually (most of them
ongoing, but if not, then at least once every 12 months) by the Marketing Committee for accuracy,
necessity and value. This review will include all communication materials with clients and consumers.
CORE 10c
VII. RELATED DOCUMENTS
Master Marketing and Sales CommunicationsList
Website
Brochures
Pay per Click campaign
Handouts for conferences
Newsletters
Blogs
34
4. Business Relations for Delegated Work
A. Delegation and Review CORE 6-•-9
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
X	Triage Logic
X PRN
			Phone RN
Effective	Date:11/13/13
Name of Policy/Procedure: DelegationOversight
Program
Most	Recent	RevisionDate:
Policy	#: 7 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
I. PURPOSE AND SCOPE
The purpose of this guideline is to ensure the efficient operation of Triage Logic, LLC (the
“Company”) by providing guidelines for the appropriate signature authority and delegation of
authority required for various transactions and activities at the Company.
II. GUIDELINE STATEMENT
In order to promote greater economy and efficiency, the Company has delegated authority
concerning certain activities, such as nurse triage work. Accountability for the management of the
delegated work by the Company ultimately rests with the CEO who expects those with signature
authority under the terms of this guideline to safeguard Company resources by establishing and
maintaining sound business controls that deter and detect any potential misuse of resources and
legal requirements. The procedures outlined below identify those situations in which it is
appropriate to use delegations of authority and the procedures that should be followed to make
such delegations.
III. DEFINITIONS
Delegation of authority: As used in this guideline, a “delegation of authority” is the formal
recorded conveyance of authority from the Company to the individual presidents and/or
designees. Any such transfers of powers and duties are therefore significant actionsrequiring
great care and scrutiny.
Delegator: The employee who has authority to take action on behalf of the Company who
transfers (“delegates”) his/her authority to an outside contractor (“Delegate”).
Delegate: The contractor who is officially transferred the authority to act on behalf of the
delegator.
Signature authority: As used in this policy, “signature authority” is the permission to execute
transactions up to limits established by relevant Company policies and permission to approve
35
transactions for execution. This approval attests to the appropriateness of the transaction within
Company’s objectives and budgetary authorizations.
Responsible: Chair/CEO and Medical Director COO
Purpose: TriageLogic (“TL”) developed and implemented a Delegation Oversight Program in an
effort to make available a synopsis of the TL delegation process. The DelegationOversight
Program has four components as follows: (1) Selection of a Delegate; (2) Orientation forthe
entity approved for delegation; (3) Delegation Oversight; and (4) Withdrawal of Delegation.TL
provides assessment and oversight for the following functions: PRN Nurse Call.
At this time TriageLogic does not delegate to any contractor that would require a site visit.
IV. GUIDELINE FOR PROPER DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
General Scope ofDelegation
Delegations of authority should be limited both in scope, number and time frame to those which
are necessary to achieve efficiency while maintaining accountability. Delegations of authority are
appropriate where the delegation will enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the operation
without risking the integrity of the internal control necessary for accountability. No delegation
shall be made of all or substantially all of the powers held by any persons making a delegation, or
where checks and balances would be minimized. Delegation of authority must not conflict with
any Company policy. Individuals who receive delegated authority shall have active involvement
with the activity being conducted; and have sufficient knowledge of the Company policies, rules,
laws, regulations and procedures to ensure compliance, including compliance with URAC
standards. CORE 8b
Delegator will provide for training to the Delegate to ensure compliance with legislation and the
policies referred to above.
B. Selection of Delegate CORE 7
Prior to delegating functions to another entity, the delegator and any other party assisting in
finding a delegate must perform the following:
1. Review all the potential contractors by doing the following: CORE 7a
• Explore market for potential vendors
• Meet with Owners
• Due Diligence –such as references from current clients, surveys, discussion with
current workers, etc.
• Review contractor’s ability to perform delegated function according to company’s
policy and procedure
2. Each party involved with the decision will develop a list of criteria for what is needed
from the delegated contractor. CORE 7b
3. Enter into a written contract with contractor to satisfy URAC requirements CORE 8 a-• -h
36
Once a delegate has been selected, there must be a slow implementation of clients – a few at a
time and evaluate capability and satisfaction.
I. DELEGATION MANAGEMENT AND EFFECTIVE DATES
The Office of the CEO will maintain a centralized file of all delegation of authority contracts
related to this policy.
A delegation of authority shall become effective on the date the delegation is fully executed and
the contract between the delegator and delegate is signed. Delegations shall continue until
revoked or modified. The departments are responsible for maintaining active and up to date
delegations of authority and should review all delegations annually (or through ongoing reviews)
to assure that the delegations on file are current. The delegation must be fully executed before any
documents are signed by theDelegate.
II. SIGNATURE AUTHORITY GUIDELINES CORE 8
Within each department, the department head is responsible for the overall operations ofthe
department and may assign signature authority to certain employees in compliance with this
policy. The signature authority matrix will be updated for specific transactions and reported to
the CEO office.
Employees with signature authority are responsible for assuring thefollowing:
• An understanding of what is being approved
• Specifies the responsibilities being delegated to the contractor and those retained in the
organization CORE 8a
• The information and supporting documentation is accurate and complete
• The transaction is allowable, legal, reasonable and justified
• Services performed by delegate is in accordance the Company’s requirements and the
requirements by the company’s certification requirements (such as URAC) CORE 8b
• There are adequate funds to cover the expense
• The internal controls for Delegation authority are specified (see below)
III. INTERNAL CONTROLS FOR DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
It is the responsibility of the Delegator to maintain proper control and management of his/her
area; the Delegator remains accountable for all actions taken by the Delegate. The Delegator
shall take into account and maintain appropriate internal controls including separation of duties,
reviewing reports, sampling completed transactions and monitoring the effectiveness ofthe
controls established. Such controls need to be in writing in a contract between delegate and
delegator. These internal controls need include (but are not limited to):
a. Require notification to the organization of any material change in the contractor’s ability
to perform delegated functions CORE 8c
b. Specify that the organization may conduct surveys of the contractor, as needed CORE8d
37
C. Delegation Oversight CORE 9
All transactions shall be authorized according to sound management practices.
The fundamental premise of segregated duties is that an individual should not be in a position to
initiate, approve, and review the same action. Delegator is responsible for oversight of the delegated
function and reporting the effectiveness and oversight results to superiors. The following oversight
items need to take place:
1. An annual review of the contractor's written policies and documented procedures and
documentation of quality activities for related delegated functions CORE 9a
2. A continuing process to verify contractor's compliance with contractual requirements and
written policies and documented procedures; such as scheduled meetings with Contractors
(no less than once in a quarter) CORE 9b
3. Scheduled meetings to discuss contractor’s financial transactions with other clients or general
policies and contracts with other stakeholders to ensure that contractor has no financial
incentive to deviate from contract agreement. CORE	9c	Approximately every 8 weeks a
PRN/TL Management meeting is held to discuss the proceeding items.
4. Independent evaluation of delegate’s work by delegator to ensure quality and compliance.
Independent evaluation may include for example, annual surveys of people affected by
contractor’s work, scheduled verification of contractor’s actual work performance such as
listening to phone calls, verifying billing, etc.
I. ORIENTATION FOR THE ENTITY APPROVED FOR DELEGATION
Upon approval, the Planning/Strategy/Regulatory Committee schedules orientation for newly
delegated entities. The delegated entity receives information including but not limited to:
• TriageLogic contact information
• Required TL reports and data
• The method and frequency by which the reports and data will be received by TL.
• Information regarding how and when the delegated entity must present reports to the
appropriate committee.
• Information regarding participation in TL Quality Improvement activities.
II. WITHDRAWAL OF DELEGATION
In the event the delegated entity does not comply with TL requirements, refuses to implement
requested improvement strategy, and/or fails to submit the required documents/reports, TL will
submit the information to the CEO office with the recommendation to withdraw delegation.
All delegated activities are coordinated by the Planning/Strategy/Regulatory Committee with
actual oversight and assessment conducted by the CEO. The Delegation Program is performed in
collaboration with all TL committees and their policies and procedures specific to the delegated
activity.
A) TriageLogic Currently delegates the following service that directly affects clients:
• Nurse Triage Contractor – PRN
38
B) List of Requirements for a nurse triage contractor: The following criteria were applied
in 2006 in evaluating PRN:
1) Agree to weekly meetings to discuss current issues
2) Show a full training of nurses, including clinical as well as phone manners
3) Show understanding of HIPAA and regulations
4) Clear Communication channels with nurses
5) Regular surveys of patients and physicians
6) Nurse RNs only taking calls
7) RN licensing verification, with annual updated spreadsheet of nurse license and
malpractice insurance proof
8) Nurse in charge and responsible for training and QA of other nurses
9) Proper complaint resolution process demonstrated
C) TriageLogic has the following regular checks with PRN:
1) Weekly meetings with medical director to discuss current issues with a nurse
representative and PRN owner.
a. PRN must agree to comply with TriageLogic Policies and Procedures at all times to
remain a contractor
b. PRN discusses any marketing materials and needs to be submitted to marketing
committee
c. Medical director discusses any patient and client feedback, nurse incentives and
results from monthly reports
2) Meetings at least once every 2 months between PRN owners and TL management to
discuss PRN financials and incentives, update contracts, etc. CORE 9c
3) Once a year PRN submits nurses licenses and any other proof of continuing
certifications of nurses
4) Triagelogic studies data and reports from PRN nursing site. Medical Director receives
and reviews reports at least once every 6 months
5) Contract review and discussion once a year to ensure regulations are being followed
39
5. Business Relationships with Clients
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
X		Triage Logic
			Phone RN
X PRN
EffectiveDate:11/13/13
Name of Policy/Procedure: WrittenBusiness
Agreements/Client ContractReview
Most	Recent	RevisionDated:		9/27/16
Policy	#: 8 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
I. PURPOSE
TriageLogic will maintain signed written agreements with all clients. All agreements must clearly outline
the scope of the business arrangement and the services to be provided.
II. POLICY
TriageLogic will maintain signed written agreements with all clients in both PDF and Original Hard
Copy. The PDF version will be maintained by the Sales Account Manager and the Original HardCopy
will be maintained in the CorporateOffice. Clients will be asked to mail the signed contract to the
corporate office, but if they do not, a PDF will be sufficient.
A client is defined as: a company for which TriageLogic performsservices.
III. PROCEDURE
It is the responsibility of the Sales Account Manager to obtain signed written agreements with all clients.
Once the agreement is signed, the original hard copy is scanned into a PDF file by the Sales Account
Manager and the Original is sent to the Corporate Office for permanentfiling.
The Sales Account Manager will maintain a spreadsheet of all written agreements with clients.
Contracts with Clients are self-renewing, unless requested otherwise by client. The SalesAccount
Manager will report to the Medical Director or COO any contracts that are being terminated by client.
From time-to-time, the CEO may request the Medical Director and the Sales Account Manager to review
contracts for any possible changes in prices and terms. New terms will be discussed with client at least 2
months prior to the contract renewaldate.
ContractRequirements:
The Nurse Triage Services Agreement needs to satisfy US regulation requirements, HIPAA requirements
and URACrequirements.
The following items outline the URAC requirements that need to be part of the TriageLogic Nurse Triage
Contract. We have indicated the item number in the contract that satisfies the URAC requirements, and
CORE 11, 12
40
the items that do not apply to TriageLogic’s scope of service:
N/A – Not applicable
NT – Nurse TriageContract
• Clearly defined roles and responsibilities, scope of the business arrangement - NT Contract
items 1 and 2
• Services provided NT Contract item 3
• The relationship of the organizations program with the client NT Contract item 13
• Criteria for eligibility for the program N/A
• Procedures for opting-in, opting-out, or dis-enrolling from the program N/A
• Instructions for contacting the program for urgent and non-urgent situations NT Contract
Exhibit B
• A description of the potential health benefits of receiving program services N/A
• The existence of restrictions, limitations or incentives in the program that may affect the
participating consumer. N/A
IV. RELATED DOCUMENTS
See Nurse Triage ServicesAgreement
41
6. Client Management and Relations CORE 12, 17-•-24
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
X	Triage Logic
Phone RN
X PRN
Effective	Date:11/13/13
Name	of	Policy/Procedure:Client
Satisfaction/End	UserSatisfaction
Most	Recent	RevisionDate: 9/28/16
Policy	#: 9 Most	Recent Review: 9/28/16
I. OBJECTIVE
To conduct a survey of clients to determine the quality of service provided by the staff; to collect
information on client needs and expectations; to identify perceived and potential problems that need
improvement; and to make changes to improve service.
II. CLIENT SATISFACTION DOCUMENTATION (surveys, etc.) CORE	12, 17
TriageLogic surveys clients using a client satisfaction questionnaire developed in collaboration
between the Medical Director and the Client Relations Manager. The questionnaire contains
statement/questions to evaluate client satisfaction with the quality of the nurse triage service.
Client relations manager participates in conducting the survey for at least a sample of the clients once a
year and reports the results to the Compliance Officer for the Quality Management Committee. Quality
Management Committee meets quarterly (see below in this section for more information about the
committee).
The Medical Director and Sales & Accounts Manager telephones and sets up meetings with clients on
an as needed basis forfeedback.
In addition, TriageLogic also maintains a complaint resolution process discussed below in the section.
III. END USER (CONSUMER) SATISFACTION PROCEDURE AND DOCUMENTATION CORE
39
The purpose of the end use satisfaction is to ensure proper patient care.
We currently conduct surveys that fall into the following quality domains: proficiency,
responsiveness, communication, accommodation, and patient satisfaction. The survey is also seen as a
vehicle for early identification of problems and of actions required for continuous quality
improvement. An average score of 3.8 or above overall satisfaction was used as the acceptable
performance standard. The survey is performed randomly on a portion of patients that are called to
take part in the survey Patient survey is conducted at least once a year.
42
• Proficiency is the customer’s perception of the capability, expertise, or knowledge of the staff
and the manner in which services are provided.
• Responsiveness includes timeliness, assistance, and guidance.
• Communication focuses on clarity of verbal and written expression.
• Accommodation regards the behavior or interpersonal skills of staff; statements in this domain
focus on respect, courtesy and sensitivity.
• Patient Satisfaction pertains to the overall patient impression of the encounter with staff;
statements in this domain focus on improving services offered to clients and the appropriateness
of the surveillance process.
Results:
The results of the client and consumer surveys will be tabulated and reported to the CEO and Quality
Committee. The committee will review all survey results and determine priorities for improvement.
All specific areas of concern will be incorporated into the Quality Improvement Program.
IV. RELATED DOCUMENTS
See Patient Evaluation Survey
See Client Satisfaction Survey
43
44
46
V. QUALITY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM CORE 17
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
X	Triage Logic
Phone RN
X PRN
Effective	Date:11/15/13
Name	of	Policy/Procedure:Quality
ManagementProgram
Most	Recent	RevisionDate: 9/27/16
Policy	#: 29 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
Scope CORE	19b
The goal of the Quality Management Program (QMP) is to establish leadership structure throughout the
path of quality workflow that enables TriageLogic to provide a high quality call center service.
TriageLogic QMP is designed to promote quality to patients, quality to clients (doctors and hospitals) and
internal quality of nursing. CORE	21b	This includes development of a program that provides forthe
continuous process improvement and evaluation of accurate, reliable, cost-effective triage services in
both hospital and private practicesettings.
Quality management is the continuing process whereby TriageLogic ensures quality, maintains
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Multidisciplinary committee membership demonstrates
integration and collaboration throughout the TriageLogic quality management structure. Our members
work to solve problems, improve systems and fulfill specific strategic initiatives.
a. Quality Management Program Requirements CORE 19
1.) The Quality Management Program oversight is done by the Quality Management Committee.
CORE 19a
2.) The Quality Management Committee reviews the Quality Management Program at least once
a year and makes updates to the program if needed. CORE 19c
3.) Overall responsibility for the Quality Management Program sits with the CEO, and the CEO
sits on the quality management committee. CORE 19e, 20a
4.) Oversight for the QMP is shared by the Chair/CEO and COO. CORE	19	e	TheCompliance
Officer also sits on this committee. The CEO is responsible for overseeing the surveys and
non-clinical indicators and the Medical director is in charge of the clinical indicators. CORE
19 e
5.) The Medical Director is responsible for overseeing any clinical complaints and internal
nursing quality. CORE	19e		In addition, the Medical Director defines the goals of patient and
47
client satisfaction rates. The Medical Director is responsible reviewing and reporting the
following:
a.) Review any complaints and identify areas that need improvement
b.) Review areas that are strengths and promote them to continue
c.) Receive input from client providers and report to the quality management committee at
least once a year CORE20e
d.) Review a summary of the following:
i) Patient Surveys – compare to previous quarter
ii) Patient Complaints
iii) Practice Surveys – compare to previous quarter
iv) Internal Quality of Nursing – review for ongoing standards – recommend changes or
improvement to the internal nursing review
6.) The Quality Management Committee maintains, at all times, at least two quality
improvement projects relating to error reduction or performance improvement. CORE 22
See sample form for tracking quality improvement project in the following website:
http://www.medicalccp.org/Files/Provider/QISPD/SPDAdvanceDirectivesQIP2012Q1Update
.pdf
The form at the end of this document establishes the items for the quality improvement
projects.
7.) At least one of the two Quality Projects must address consumer safety (such recognizing 911
symptoms). CORE 24a
8.) Medical Director has to be involved in all projects of quality improvement that are of
clinical nature. CORE24b
b. Quality Management Committee CORE 20
1.) OBJECTIVES – The role of the Quality Management Committee is to: CORE 19d
a.) Provide a report of the quality Management program to the CEO and COO (CEO sits on
the committee, making it an automatic report) CORE 20b
b.) Approve Quality Improvement Projects and Initiatives CORE 20g
c.) Provide Guidance to staff on quality management priorities and projects through
 Compliance Officers report in Management’s meeting with staff. CORE 20f
d.) Monitor progress in meeting quality improvement goals CORE 20h
The Quality Management committee tracks trends performance related to patient access to
service, complains and satisfaction.
2.) STRUCTURE CORE 17
CORE	19	c	The permanent members of the Quality Management Committee are: CEO, Medical
Director, Compliance Officer, and Sales & Accounts Manager CORE	20 e
48
The committee is responsible for approving all quality improvement projects, monitoring
progress and meeting the improvement goals. CORE 20 g & h The committee will also evaluate the
effectiveness of the Quality Management Program annually in during the summer month of each
year. CORE	20 i
• Meets quarterly. Progress reports, recommended changes in businessimplementation,
rationale behind changes, evaluation of PRN/PhoneRN quality of care and integrity of data
inputs, evaluates nursing quality CORE 20c
• Maintains records of committee meetings, by having committee meeting minutes.This
minute have to be approved by the committee. The CEO may sign the minutes to show that
they have been approved. CORE 20d
• Quality improvement projects: decides on quality improvement projects, evaluates progress,
goals of improvement project, etc.
• At least one of the two quality improvement projects pages must address consumer safety. In
addition, Medical Director must be involved in the clinical aspects of the project. CORE 24
• Multidisciplinary committee membership demonstrates integration and collaboration of the
quality management structure. . Our members work to solve problems, improve systems, or
fulfill specific strategic initiatives. CORE	19 e
• At least once a year, committee members are required to report on the following:
a.) CEO to report after evaluating PRN incentives to ensure that quality of care is not
compromised
b.) CEO reports on other resources and help evaluate whether they are using properly:
marketing, computer, independent consultants, etc. (these issues come from discussions
in general management meetings and what we have changed in the past year)
c.) Medical Director to obtain documents from PRN to ensure compliance with regulations
and policies and procedures and report to committee. Medical Director also presents
reports on quality of nurses such as average call back times, etc. These reports can also be
presented by an outside representative of the software system (Currently Rose Moon)
d.) Compliance Officer obtains results of the surveying of a sample of clients, from the
Client Relations Manager.
e.) Committee to review actual quality of care (review surveys, data analysis, etc. This
report is presented by the Compliance Officer or the Client Relations Manager)
NOTE: CORE 20e does not apply
Committee meetings ensure thefollowing:
a.) Quality to Patients – ensure that we are tracking patient satisfaction through regular
surveys. Ensure that when a patient presents a complaint that it is evaluated promptly
and thoroughly. To have a process in place to track and monitor complaints.
49
b.) Quality to Clients (Doctors and Hospitals) – ensure that we are tracking client satisfaction
through regular surveys. Ensure that when a practice or doctor’s office has questions or
concerns that they have a dedicated person they can contact to get answers. To have a
formal process in place to evaluate and answer the clients questions.
c.) Internal Quality of Nursing – To have a rigorous process in place to internally monitor
the quality of nursing and care provided by thenurses.
c. Quality Management Program Resources CORE 18
The day-to-day operations of the quality management program are managed as follows.
1.) Quality to Patients – a person dedicated to surveying and compiling survey results from
patients. A staff member dedicated to receiving any inbound complaints from patients and
evaluating those. The Medical Director is available to the RN for questions.
2.) Quality to Clients (doctors and hospitals) – a person dedicated to maintaining contact with
the practices and receiving ongoing feedback. A person dedicated to surveying clients at
least every twelve months and compiling the data for the Quality Committee to review.
Currently, this duty is part of the job description of the Client Relations Manager.
3.) Internal Quality of Nursing – Three nurse managers are responsible for quality
management of the nursing program at the clinical level. This is further outlined and
explained under the clinicalsection.
4.) Quality of Marketing and Advertisement Materials. Currently this is the responsibility of
the Web/Product Design & Management Support Staff.
d. Quality Management Documentation CORE 21
Minutes will be taken at all Quality Management Committee meetings and approved bythe
committee. The following information and procedure is required to be part of theQuality
reporting (minutes) to help evaluate the effectiveness of the quality management programs and
report relevant information to the staff.
a) Objectives, goals, and methods for measuring a specific quality issue that is part of the
quality management program. These measures need to be quantifiable to be used in
evaluating the base level, the acceptable level of performance, and the goals of the quality
improvement project. CORE	21a	and	c d
b) Tracking and trending of the quality measure. This is important to help assessthe
effectiveness off the quality issue being considered. For issues related to patient care, the
following need to be part of the quality measures. CORE 21b
i) patient ability to access the service (such as how fast is the nurse able to return phone
call)
ii) patient complaints
iii) patient satisfaction
50
These measures and additional quality measures can be part of the survey asked to patients,
but also reported by the software if software reporting is available for the measure
c) Once a quality improvement project takes place, it needs to be evaluated at least once a year
in order to verify that it is improving and for the committee to decide whether it wants to
continue the quality improvement project, or start a new project.
d) Certain quality measures projects such as patient and client surveys and software reports on
nurse quality data (such as average callback times) are an ongoing part of the quality
measures in the company. The quality improvement committee is responsible for keeping
track of these ongoing projects and evaluating them at least once annually to ensure that they
are reaching the minimum performance. Minimum performance of ongoing quality
improvement projects are determined by the quality management committee, and can only be
changed by the committee. CORE	21e	Currently the following mandatory ongoing quality
measures apply:
i) Average minimum patient satisfaction rate from survey =3
ii) Average minimum client satisfaction rate from survey =3
iii) Less than 3% client or patient complaint a month (see current complaint form for how
TriageLogic tracks complaints)
iv) Average nurse call back time of 30 minutes or less (measured every quarter)
e) The medical director and the client relations manager are responsible for evaluating the
ongoing minimum standards and reporting them to the quality management Committee.
CORE 21h
f) If the average minimum quality is not met in a given period, then the medical director or the
direct supervisor for the particular quality issue will meet with the managers and nurses
involved and implement new training and evaluation methods to make sure that they are able
to improve the quality to meet the minimum requirements. . CORE 21f
g) The Quality Management Committee provides feedback and guidance (in the form ofsummary
reports) to staff, delegated staff and leadership on what they expect, what they are monitoring
and, what they are looking for from nurse managers and practices. This information is
communicated through weekly meetings as appropriate, with one of the members of the Quality
Management Committee members reporting and explaining the measures during the meeting.
CORE	20f	and	CORE	21g
The weekly meeting schedule is asfollows:
51
Marketing
Review	of	marketing	&	
sales	materials,	
Compliance	with	
marketing	laws,	Quality	
of	marketing	materials
Presiding	Officer
COO
Members
Marketing	Manager
Web	/	Product	Designer
Chair	and	CEO
Information	
Technology
Regulations,	Quality	of	
servers	(Speed	&	
efficiency),	HIPAA	
Compliance
Presiding	Officer
Medical	Director/COO
Members
Head	of	IT
Corporate	Counsel
Planning Quality Oversight Meetings are weekly unless otherwise specified.
Sales
Presiding	Officer
COO
Members
Sales	and	Accounts
Manager
PRN	 /	Phone	RN
Regulatory	updates	&	
nursing	requirements,	
Compliance	issues,	
Patient	complaints,	
Quality	of	patient	service
Presiding	Officer
Medical	Director/COO
Members
Client	Relations	Manager
PRN	Directors
Nurse	Managers
Planning	/	Strategy	/	Regulatory
(Annually)
Quality	Compliance,	Treasurer’s	Report,	
Approval	of	Policy	and	Procedures
Presiding	Officer
CEO
Members
Medical	Director	/	COO
Compliance	Supervisor
Quality	(Quarterly)
Progress	Reports,	recommended	changes	
in	business	implementation,	rationale	
behind	changes,	evaluation	of	
PRN/Phone	RN	quality	of	care	&	integrity	
of	data	inputs
Presiding	Officer
CEO	and/or	Compliance	Supervisor
Members
Medical	Director/COO
Client	Relations	Manager
Nurse	Manager
Sales	and	Accounts	Manager
Management
Report	on	sales	and	
accounts,	Report	on	IT	
and	nursing
Presiding	Officer
Chair	/	CEO
Members
Medical	Director	/	COO
Sales	and	Accounts	
Manager
Marketing	Manager
Web/Product	Designer	
Management	Support
52
Key Committees within TriageLogic include: Planning/Strategy/Regulatory, Quality, Nurse
Manager and IT. Each committee will oversee the management of quality in their own area and their
duties a delineatedbelow.
Planning/Strategy/Regulatory – is responsible for the overall operation and administration of Triage
including employment of personnel who are competent to perform their duties accurately, proficient
for ensuring compliance with the applicable regulations. This committee is involved in the design,
implementation, oversight and annual review of the Quality Management Program.
• Ongoing monitoring of quality improvement and regulatory compliance
• Interface and coordinate with regulatory agencies
• Maintenance of an updates regulatory compliance database
• Coordinate safety investigations and corrective action plans
• Provide oversight and guidance for Quality improvement and safety activities.
Quality Committee – is responsible for the implementation, coordination and maintenance of the
quality improvement program at TriageLogic. This committee oversees the design and
implementation of o company quality improvement and patient quality activities and ensures
integration of QI activities other committees/staff (direct or indirect) of TriageLogic. This committee
will review performance measurements, reports of occurrence, and other indicators identified to
determine if a quality or patient quality issue requires further review. The Quality Committee will
also be responsible for reviewing approving the Quality Management Program and indicators on an
annual basis. CORE	19(c)	If through performance monitoring the QM Committee encounters an
opportunity for improvement that is urge committee will implement quality improvement activities.
CORE 17
The committee facilitates the company QI plans, decides which processes and outcomes should be
monitored, reviews results of data collection, assesses the effectiveness of actions andmakes
recommendations forimprovement.
Subcommittees or teams may be formed when problems or opportunities for new or improved service
processes are identified.
Nurse Management Committee – is responsible for ensuring regulatory compliance, technical
education competency of nursing staff. This committee will assist in the selection of QI
monitors/indicators. may develop service expectations, review patient safety events, advise staff on
timely efficient work and address challenges of triage calls. They determine how quality information
is communicated to staff and encourage staff to report quality and safety/risk concerns. They collect
data, report measur the Quality Committee and prepare any other summaries required.
Additionally, they perform the following duties:
• Ensure that all complaints are identified, investigated, corrected and documented.
• Solve interdepartmental Quality and Patient care problems.
• Establishing a system for identifying, correcting and documenting internal and external depart
problems.
TRIAGELOGIC, LLC
53
• Implement and maintain a comprehensive employee orientation, training and competency program.
• Ensure policy and procedure manuals are current and followed by staff.
IT Committee – is responsible for ensuring that data quality control is maintained. Review abnormalities,
outliers, or other problems with quality control logs, preventive maintenance logs or other reporting formats
assigned for review. Implement established policies and procedures for the area. Review monthly
preventive maintenance documentation and bring problems to TriageLogic. Communicate and resolve
issues that arise. Identify opportunities for improvement and equipment management
e. Quality Plan
To summarize, as indicated above, TriageLogic maintains a strong commitment to quality and patient safety
and care. Employees and delegated staff are encouraged to discuss quality and safety concerns with their
supervisor/manager. It is the responsibility of all personnel to do the right thing, all the time, for the patient.
The quality plan should outline a process for identifying current and foreseeable customer needs using
the 5 Key quality system components.
• Planning (organization)
• Teamwork (personnel)
• Monitoring (assessment)
• Improvement
• Review (organization)
Quality plans generate a process for effective, team-based decision making, sustaining ongoing monitoring
of operational process and customer satisfaction, identifying process problems, implementing appropriate
process improvement and practicing ongoing quality reviews. The focus is improved patient careand
increased quality outcomes. This is accomplished through ongoing programs designed to assess, measure,
improve and monitor improvement of care provided by TriageLogic. The goal of these plans is to ensure
processes that systematically measure areas needing improvement, and develop programs appropriate to
enhance patient health outcomes and patient and client satisfaction.
The Quality Management Committee aligns the Key indicators with the Quality Improvement Plan for
TriageLogic. The Key indicators are selected on an annual basis. Quality indicators are observations,
statistics, or other data that quantify and measure the performance of a process.
CORE	19 a
Program Approved by:
Date:
Charu G. Raheja, PhD
Date:
Ravi K. Raheja, MD
54
VI. QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS Requirements and Goals Core 23
• Will have clearly-defined quantifiable measures for quality improvement
• Measure organization's baseline performance
• Re-measure performance at least annually as compared to the baseline performance
• Create specific goals for performance that are an improvement over the baseline performance
• Establish strategies for performance improvement
• Articulate projected time frames for the achievement of performance improvement goals
• Conduct a barrier analysis if the organization does not achieve its performance goals
Annual Program Evaluation – The framework for establishing next year’s goals is documented here.
Include evaluation of resourceshere.
Quality Improvement Project Form CORE 23 & CORE24
Project Start Date:
Quantifiable BaselineMeasures:
Quantifiable Baseline Goals:
Improvement Strategies & DatesImplemented:
Periodic Progress Measurements & Documented Discussions:
Any Changes in Improvement Strategy & Brief Description ofChanges:
55
7. Data Integrity and Information Regulation
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
_X_Triage Logic
X	 PRN
			Phone RN
Effective	Date: 11/13/13
Name	of	Policy/Procedure:Information
Management
Most	Recent	RevisionDate:
Policy	#: 12 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
CORE 13
Triage logic uses an electronic Triage System.
Triage Logic Electronic Triage System includes a core software program, nurse triage guidelines (the
“Protocols”), and online and paper documentation (all of which shall be collectively referred to as the
"System").
TriageLogic conducts weekly meetings with Software Provider to ensure proper integrity and
interoperability of data. Core13c
The software provider is also responsible for proper storage and destruction of data. Core 13b	All patient
data is kept in the software server and no patient information is in the nurses’ computers.
Any issues with the system are reported in the Management meeting during the IT briefing, and any
systematic problems are addressed by the quality management committee.
56
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
X	Triage Logic
X	 	 Phone RN
X PRN
Effective	Date:2/2/14
Name of Policy/Procedure: Disposal of Protected
Health	Information(PHI)
Most	Recent	RevisionDated:
Policy	#: 36 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
VII. PURPOSE
To implement reasonable safeguards to limit incidental, and avoid prohibited, uses and disclosures
of PHI, including in connection with the disposal of such information.
VIII. POLICY
PHI cannot be disposed of in paper records, electronic media, or other forms of PHI in dumpsters,
recycling bins, garbage cans, or other trash receptacles generally accessible by the public or other
unauthorized persons unless the protected health information (PHI) has been rendered essentially
unreadable, indecipherable, and otherwise cannot be reconstructed prior to it being placed in a
dumpster.
IX. SCOPE
The scope of this policy includes all individuals who are responsible for or who use TriageLogic
electronic software. Vendors and contractors who have access to TriageLogic information
resources are also subject to thispolicy.
X. PROCEDURE
A. Offsite workforce disposal of protected health information. It is the policy of TriageLogic
that all protected health information remain in the system software only. Printing of PHI is
prohibited. If PHI is printed, it must be disposed of immediately after use by shredding in a
crosscut shredder located in your home. TriageLogic prohibits any protected health
information from leaving your home. Once the documents have been shredded completely,
they may be placed in a trash receptacle.
57
Sensitive Data Removal Protocol
Confirmation in writing that data is no longer required, and service termination is accepted.
Here are the three reasons, and methods by which, data has to be destroyed:
1. A server is removed
2. A contractor leaves and we erase any TL data
3. A computer is retired and cleaned up completely
CASE: DATA CENTERS - SERVERS
Information stored within dedicated and virtual servers all need to be removed prior to format.
Confirm no ability to log in server with SSH test.
Inform datacenter of server wipe complete ready for removal.
CASE: USER DESKTOP CLEAN UP (any Operating System)
- Initiate LogMeIn session with Triage Logic IT.
- Remove all references to links to triage logic portal
- Remove any cache and offline storage, and saved login information from all
browsers, as any browser may have been used.
- Search for .csv .xls .pdf .txt .doc files remove all Triage Logic related files.
- Remove LogMeIn program.
- Empty TRASH
- Use software shredder on trash.
- Update LogMeIn in this computer notes of clean up and wipe.
CASE: DESTRUCTION of user DESKTOP
-Initiate LogMeIn session with Triage Logic IT.
-.hard drive erased/reformatted based on individual operating system.
B. Violation of Policy
If there is a reasonable basis to believe that the proper procedures as outlined in this
standard have not been or are not being followed, a report must be given to the
Compliance Officer. If improperly sanitized electronic media is found, then the media
should be reported to the appropriate departmental IT support personnel.
58
II. Business Continuity / Disaster Recovery
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
_X_Triage Logic
_X_PRN
			Phone RN
Effective	Date:11/13/13
Name of Policy/Procedure: BusinessContinuity Most	Recent	RevisionDate:
Policy	#: 15 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
A. Business Continuity Plan CORE14	a,	b,	c ,d
TriageLogic will only contract with a software vendor that provides the following minimum
requirements
B. Support Infrastructure: The Software Vendor must provide the following:
1. 24/7 emergency support for any software or server related issues 365 days a year with a response
time of 30 minutes for emergency support issues. The nurse manager on call will be responsible for
accessing the emergency support system as needed. CORE	14 d
2. Testing of entire system at least once every 2 years to identify:
a. Any potential issues that could affect the continuity of business, including but not limited to
server attacks, virus, etc. CORE	14 C
b. Assessment of potential vulnerabilities and the integrity of the system, including HIPAA
compliance testing. CORE 15a
C. Server Infrastructure
1. Primary Server: This is defined as the main server that the clinical staff and non-clinical staff access
via a secure interface to perform their triage duties
2. Mirror Image Backup server: This is a defined as a second server that is a mirror image of the
primary server but is located in a geographically separate data center
3. Vendor provides weekly testing of data replication process and CORE	14c	and CORE	13 a
D. Data Backup
1. Live Back Up Process: Any data changed on the primary server is reflected within 5 seconds or less
on the mirror image backup server
2. Hourly and daily database dumps of all data: this is in addition to the live replication so the data is
stored in a third offline database.
59
3. Replication logs of every data change can be re-ran to rebuild databases.
E. Data Center Infrastructure
TriageLogic only uses SSAE-16 certified data centers with the appropriate security and infrastructure.
Our vendor’s servers are collocated with Superb Internet (www.superb.net)
Below is a summary of their certifications. Additional details are available on their website.
Data Center Staff is ITILCertified
ITIL advocates that our IT services must be aligned to the needs of the business and underpin the core
business processes. It provides guidance to our organizations on how to use IT as a tool to facilitate
business change, transformation andgrowth.
The ITIL best practices are currently detailed within five core publications which provide a systematic
and professional approach to the management of IT services, enabling us to deliver appropriate services
and continually ensure they are meeting business goals and delivering benefits.
The five core guides map our entire ITIL Service Lifecycle, beginning with the identification of
customers’ needs and drivers of IT requirements, through to the design and implementation ofthe
service into operation and finally, on to the monitoring and improvement phase of the service. For more
information on ITIL, visitwww.itil-officialsite.com
All 3 Data Centers are SSAE 16Audited
The SSAE-16 Auditing Standard is an enhancement to the current standard for Reporting on Controls at
a Service Organization: the SAS70. These updates bring companies up-to-date with new international
service organization reporting standards: the ISAE 3402. SSAE-16 is now effective as of June 15, 2011.
All organizations are now required to issue their Service Auditor Reports under the SSAE-16 standards
in an SOC1 Report.
The integrity of our data recovery facilities and data hosting solutions The security of our IT assets
Our compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Act of 2002 and other data privacy and data security
compliance regulations Our overall IT compliance.
SSAE-16 ensures that companies, specializing in service, adhere to a strict set of international standards
set by the Auditing Standards Board (ASB) of the American Institute of Certified Public Accounting
(AICPA). For more information on SSAE 16, visit www.ssae-16.com
The combination of the strict server infrastructure, live data backup and Data Center Infrastructure
provide maximum uptime and businesscontinuity.
60
Below describes the different scenarios that can occur and how the operations are to continue. An email
sent to 911@triagelogic.com will alert all the on call IT staff as well as the Medical Director and COO
of an IT emergency.
1. Primary server is unavailable – Nurse Manager verifies that more than one user is experiencing
an inability to access the primary server. Nurse Manager sends an email to 911@triagelogic.com
and directs everyone to the backup site Staff Policy and Procedure for IT Support.
2. Primary and Backup server is unavailable - Nurse Manager verifies that more than one user is
experiencing an inability to access the primary server and the backup server. Nurse manager sends
an email to 911@triagelogic.com and directs everyone to manual triage mode which is described in
the document Staff Policy and Procedure for Managing Calls Offline.
F. Staff Policy and Procedure for if server is not available CORE	14A, B
TriageLogic has determined that the maintenance of the software is crucial to the working of nurse
triage. At a minimum, TriageLogic has determined that nurses must have access to protocols in order
to be able to serve patients. As a result, we have the following process in place to ensure access to
protocols at all times CORE14A
If the software is not available, the following process must take place: CORE 14B
1. User Unable to Login: The user can get to the login screen but is unable to access the system. User
must contact their nurse manager on call to inform them of the problem. The nurse managers have
access and training to reset the user password after verifying the identity of the user. If the nurse
manager determines that the user is a valid user and cannot get them to access the system, then the
nurse manager will contact IT support
2. Primary Server is unavailable: The user cannot access the login screen for the system. User must
contact their nurse manager on call to inform them of the problem.
a. The nurse manager will attempt to log in to the system and verify if they can access the system
b. If the nurse manager is able to access and login to the system, then they will verify the server
website with the user and reset their password to see if they are able to get access. If the user
still cannot access the system, the nurse manager will contact IT support to report the problem.
c. If the nurse manager verifies that they are unable to access the login screen as well, then the
nurse manager will access emergency support and direct the nurses to the back-up site.
3. Primary and Backup Server is unavailable: In the rare circumstance that both the primary and
backup server is not available, the triage system will go into emergency mode which includes the
following steps:
a. Send an email out to the nursing staff to inform them that they must handle callsmanually
b. Contact the other nurse managers to inform them of the situation and enlist their help
c. Contact the non-clinical staff and give them a fax number to start faxing the calls as they come
in, instead of entering them directly into the triage system.
61
III. Information Confidentiality and Security CORE 15
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
_X_Triage Logic
_X_PRN
_X_Phone RN
EffectiveDate:11/13/13
Name	of	Policy/Procedure:INFORMATION
SECURITY POLICY
Most	Recent	RevisionDate:
Policy	#: 14 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
A. TriageLogic Information Security Policy
TriageLogic has the following in place to prevent and detect security breaches: Core 15c
1. Software Requirements
TriageLogic will only contact with a software vendor if their software platform has the following
minimum specifications as defined in BUSINESS CONTINUITY PLAN. In addition the software
must support the following minimum requirements to allow for implementation ofTriageLogic
Information Security Policy.
a. Role Based access to all Non Clinical, Clinical and PHI information in the system
b. Role based access for administrative, edit and view privileges.
c. Unique user name and password for each and every user
d. Password requirements as per current security standards
e. Logging of any view or edit actions in the system
f. Ability to prevent alteration of a completed patient chart after it has been finalized.
Triage logic also meets with vendor weekly to assess potential risks, integrity and vulnerabilities to the
confidentiality of the information system. Any issues that management identifies are addressed by
vendor immediately. For example, upon TriageLogic request vendor created HIPAA compliance
texting to allow nurses to communicate with physicians confidentially.
For example, the following issues are discussed over time:
Security violation issues, vulnerability scanning plans, results from most recent vulnerability scan (scan
done every 2 years), network penetration testing policy and procedure, results from most recent
network penetration test (network penetration test done every 2 years), configuration standards to
62
include patch management for systems which store, transmit, or access PII, encryption or equivalent
measures implemented on systems that store, transmit, or access PII.
CORE 15a
2. Prevention, detection, containment, and correction of security violation CORE	15c
a) Requirement for hiring and human access
Work Environment
As part of their orientation each clinical nurse user who works remotely must verify that they meet
the following requirements
1.) A dedicated room where they can work alone while taking calls or accessing the system.
2.) A quiet environment without any background noise that would be audible to a caller.
3.) High speed internet access (DSL, CABLE or Satellite).
b) System Access
All users have role-based access which is built into the software platform used by TriageLogic.
All user access can be remotely controlled and modified in real time by the authorized system
administrator. Each user must have the following minimum information in their system profile.
1.) First Name, Last Name, Date Of Birth, Home Zip Code, Home or cell phone number
c) Nurse Manager Access: TriageLogic’s IT customer service representative can create a nurse
manager user with written permission from the Medical Director or CEO.
d) Nurse Users Access (Clinical Users): Nurse Managers are permitted to create a nurse user
after the nurse has completed their orientation checklist.
e) Non Clinical Staff Access: Each non clinical staff is given a unique user name and password
with limited access to enter calls into the system. The Non Clinical Staff cannot view any
patient encounters or data. The nurse triage client manager creates access for the non-clinical
staff.
f) Client Access: Each practice manager or system administrator can be granted access to their
patient encounters and call schedules. The client is responsible for designating an authorized
user to access the system and any changes in writing. The nurse triage client manager creates
access for each practice after they have signed an agreement for services and makes any
changes to the user access or creates new users. New practices are discussed at the weekly
meeting and access is approved by the nurse managers.
g) Resetting Passwords: The system allows for each individual to reset their own password by
asking them to provide information within their system profile.
h) Clinical User: If the clinical user is unable to access the system, then they must contact the
nurse manager as per the Policy and Procedure for TriageLogic Support.
i) Non Clinical User or Client: If a Non Clinical or Client user is unable to access the system,
then they must contact their manager or supervisor who will then contact the client service
manager to assist with access.
63
B. Policy on Emails and Other Forms of Communication
Email is not secure. TriageLogic requires that email cannot contain PHI anywhere in the heading or
body of the message. To view any PHI, the user has to log into the system with a user name and
password. When communicating about patients via email, we refer to ticket numbers or note numbers
without mentioning any PHI. Reports and recordings are sent as links for which the user has to login to
view the PHI. None of the following items can be included in any unsecure communication.
1. Names
2. All geographical identifiers smaller than a state, except for the initial three digits of a zip code
if, according to the current publicly available data from the Bureau of the Census: the
geographic unit formed by combining all zip codes with the same three initial digits contains
more than 20,000 people; and the initial three digits of a zip code for all such geographic units
containing 20,000 or fewer people is changed to 000
3. Dates (other than year) directly related to an individual
4. Phone numbers
5. Fax numbers
6. Email addresses
7. Social Security numbers
8. Medical record numbers
9. Health insurance beneficiary numbers
10. Account numbers
11. Certificate/license numbers
12. Vehicle identifiers and serial numbers, including license plate numbers;
13. Device identifiers and serial numbers;
14. Web Uniform Resource Locators (URLs)
15. Internet Protocol (IP) address numbers
16. Biometric identifiers, including finger, retinal and voice prints
17. Full face photographic images and any comparable images
18. Any other unique identifying number, characteristic, or code except the unique code assigned
by the investigator to code the data
C. Data Breaches CORE	15 C
1. Policy on Discovery, Reporting & Notification of Information Breaches
a. Regularly Review, update and integrate security controls and reporting
b. Medical director to Report any possible incident to the incident report
64
• Provide covered entity contact information
• Identify if breach occurred at or by a Business Associate
• Date of breach, Date of Discovery
• Approx. # of impacted individuals
• Type of Breach: Theft, Loss, Improper disposal, Unauthorized access, Hacking/IT
incident
• Type of Sensitive Information Involved in Breach: TriageLogic has very little patient
information: no social security, no addresses, and no fully identifiable information. Only
patient name, reason for calling, and nurse issue.
2. Procedure for information breach notification
Upon identification and reporting of a breach, CEO is briefed and an action plan is developed to
inform the affected parties if necessary. Informing it done by contacting the patient’s physicians
and informing them about the breach and potential issues with the data. TriageLogic also informs
insurance carrier for assistance in resolving data breach issue if necessary.
3. Conduct training for all members of the workforce
All employees are trained in HIPAA policy and receive explanation and information about want
constitutes a data breach, and how to protect data against potential security breach. For the no
identifiable patient data is kept in employee computers.
D. Policy on Printing Documents with PHI CORE 13
The TriageLogic platform is a web based system. All data remains on the secure servers and requires
appropriate role based access with a user name and password to access the data.
All users of the system are NEVER required to print any information based on standard workflows.
Users are NOT PERMITTED to print any information.
If the user needs to make notes about a patient, then they must use a note number as a reference and omit
any PHI on the written notes.
In the unusual event that patient documents need to be printed, the Director of nursing/Nurse manager is
the only one that is permitted to print information from the system with PHI. Any management staff who
are permitted to print PHI have a cross-cut shredder at their desk to immediately shred the information
after use.
E. Policy on removing PHI or other data from a computer CORE 13
The TriageLogic platform is a web-based system. All data remains on the secure servers and requires
appropriate role based access with a user name and password to access the data.
All users of the system are NEVER required to save any information based on standard workflows.
Users are NOT PERMITTED to save any patient data to their local computer.
65
In the event that a computer needs to be replaced or a user leaves the company, the IT relations manager
will coordinate a WebEx with a member of the IT team. The IT representative will access the user’s
computer and remove all relevant data based on the latest standards of IT security.
Additionalquestions?
Please refer to HIPAA-HITECH documents 45CFR subparts 160 and 164.
F. Protected Health Information Policy for Employees CORE 16
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
_X_Triage Logic
_X_PRN
_X_Phone RN
EffectiveDate:12/2012,	8/6/2015
Name of Policy/Procedure: HIPAACOMPLIANCE
POLICY,	Employee	Review	Process	
Most	Recent	RevisionDate:12/2012,	8/6/2015
Policy	#: 5 Most	RecentReview:9/27/16
All Employees go through a HIPAA policy training to understand the implications and necessary stepsin
order to maintain patient confidentiality. In addition, all employees working with patient data with access to
patient information have to sign our HIPAA compliance policy. Contractors need to have a similar policy in
place in order to inform their nurses and staff about the policies. In addition, owners of delegated companies,
committee members, and board members are required to sign a BAA which includes our HIPAA policy.
Examples of topics discussed during employee training are as follows: Oral, written or electronic
communication (Email cannot contain PHI). It is the responsibility of each employee to preserve
confidentiality and PHI.
66
This	TRIAGE	HIPAA	COMPLIANCE	POLICY	of	Triage	Logic	Management	&	Consulting,	LLC	
(“Triage”)	shall	apply	to	all	employees	of	Triage,	agents	of	Triage	and	employees	of	
Triage	subcontractors	(collectively	the	“Service	Providers”).	All	agents	with	access	to	
patient	data	must	sign	this	document.
PURPOSE	OF	THIS	POLICY.	Service	Providers	are	providing	various	health	care services	
for	Triage	(the	“Services”)	which	may	involve	the	observation	or	use	of	patients/patient	
records	of	hospitals,	clinics	or	other	health	care	organizations	or	entities	that	have	
entered	into	services	agreements	with	Triage	(these	various	health	care	groups	shall	be	
collectively	referred	to	as	the	“Covered	Entities”).	In	the	course	of	providing	such	
Services,	Service	Providers	from	time	to	time	have	access	to	or	possession	of	Covered	
Entity’s	patient	protected	health	information	or	“PHI,”	as	such	term	is	hereinafter	
defined.	This	Policy	shall	set	forth	the	terms	and	conditions	pursuant	to	which	Service	
Providers	shall	use,	secure	and	keep	in	confidence	such	PHI.
1.	Definitions.	For	the	purposes	of	this	Policy,	the	following	terms	shall	have	the	
following	meanings:
(a)	Electronic	Protected	Health	Information	or	“	E	P	H	I	“.	A	subset	of	PHI,	
consisting	of	any	PHI	that	is	transmitted	by	electronic	media	or	maintained	
in	electronic	media.
(b)	Individual. The	person	who	is	the	subject	of	the	PHI,	and	has	the	same	
meaning	as	the	term	“individual”	as	defined	by	the	HIPAA	Regulations.
(c)	HIPAA	Regulations.	Those	regulations	codified	at	Title	45	of	the	Code	of	
Federal	Regulations	(C.F.R.)	and	relating	to	privacy	and	security	of	PHI.
(d)	Protected	Health	Information	or	“	P	H	I	” .	Any	information	concerning	an	
Individual,	whether	oral	or	recorded	in	any	form	or	medium:	(1)	that	
relates	to	the	past,	present	or	future	physical	or	mental	condition	of	such	
Individual;	the	provision	of	health	care	to	such	Individual;	or	the	past,	
present	or	future	payment	for	the	provision	of	health	care	to	such	
Individual;	and	(2)	that	identifies	such	Individual	with	respect	to	which	
there	is	a	reasonable	basis	to	believe	the	information	can	be	used	to	
identify	such	Individual,	and	shall	have	the	meaning	given	to	such	term	
under	the	HIPAA	Regulations.
2.	Disclosures	and	Use	of	PHI.	Subject	to	this	Policy,	Service	Providers	shall	not	the	
use	the	PHI	except	as	necessary	to	provide	the	Services.	Service	Providers	hereby	
agrees	that	the	PHI	provided	or	made	available	to	it	shall	not	be	further	used	or	
disclosed	other	than	as	permitted	or	required	by	this	Policy.	Without	limiting	the	
foregoing,	Service	Providers	agrees:	(i)	not	to	share	PHI	with	anyone	not	directly	
involved	in	the	patient’s	care	or	treatment;		(ii)	not	to	discuss	PHI	in	areas	where	it	
67
may	be	overheard;	(iii)	not	to	access	any	PHI	without	specific	direction	by	Triage;	(iv)	
not	to	attempt	access	to	PHI	for	personal	reasons;	(v)	to	inform	Triage	of	any	
personal	relationships	which	Service	Providers	may	have	with	a	patient	or	patient’s	
family	whose	PHI	Service	Providers	may	access;	(vi)	if	allowed	access	to	EPHI	by	
Triage	or	the	Covered	Entity,	to	clear	computer	screens	of	PHI	before	leaving	the	
screen;	(vii)	to	return	any	PHI	provided	on	paper	to	the	professional	staff	member	or	
employee	who	provided	it	or	to	dispose	of	it	within	the	facility	using	a	shred-it	box	
or	as	otherwise	directed	by	the	person	who	provided	it;	(viii)	not	to	store	or	transmit	
any	PHI	using	a	portable	device or	any	other	electronic	means;	(ix)		not	to	remove	
PHI	in	any	form	from	the	Covered	Entity’s	facility;	and	(x)	not	to	make	any
photographs, videos, voice recordings or any other reproduction of anyPHI.
3.	Service	Providers	Obligations.
(a)	Right	of	Access	to	PHI. Service	Providers	and	its	representatives	and	
employees	shall	forward	all	Individual	requests	for	access	to	PHI	to	Triage	
within	one	(1)	business	days	of	receipt. Access	will	only	be	granted	on	a	
need	to	know	basis	and	as	necessary	for	conducting	the	business	of	
TriageLogic. CORE 16 b,	c
(b)	Amendment	of	PHI.	Service	Providers	shall	forward	all	requests	for	
amendments	to	an	Individual’s	PHI	to	Triage	within	one	(1)	business	days	of	
receipt.
(c)	Accounting	of	Disclosures.	Service	Providers	shall	forward	all	requests	for	
an	accounting	of	disclosures	of	PHI	to	Triage	within	one	(1)	business	days	of	
receipt.
(d)	Reports	of	Improper	Use	or	Disclosure	and	Cooperation. Service	Providers	
shall	report	in	writing	to	Triage	within	one	(1)	business	day of	discovery	any	
use	or	disclosure	of	PHI	not	provided	for	or	allowed	by	this	Policy.	Service	
Providers	shall	cooperate	with	Triage	and	the	Covered	Entity	in	any	
review/investigation	of	an	actual	or	potential	breach	of	HIPAA	privacy	or	
security	regulations.
4.	Termination	and Breach.
(a)	Immediate	Termination.	In	regard	to	Triage	employees,	Triage	reserves	the	
rights	to	discipline	any	employee	of	Triage	that	has	breached	this	Policy,	
including,	the	right	to	terminate	such	employee’s	employment	with	Triage.
In	regard	to	Triage	subcontractors	and	agents,	Triage	reserves	the	right	to	
terminate	their	agreement	with	such	subcontractors	and	agents	if	they	
breach	this	Policy,	and	to	seek	such	relief	allowed	by	the	contract	with	such	
subcontractor	or	agent	and	applicable	law.
(b)	Injunctive	Relief. Notwithstanding	any	rights	or	remedies	provided	for	in	
this	Policy,	Triage	shall	be	entitled	to	obtain	temporary	and	permanent	
injunctive	relief	from	any	court	of	competent	jurisdiction	to	prevent	or	stop	
the	unauthorized use	or	disclosure	of	PHI	by	Service	Providers.
(c)	Return	or	Destruction	of	PHI.	Upon	the	termination	or	expiration	of	Service	
Providers’	employment,	agency	or	subcontract	relationship	with	Triage,	
68
Service	Providers	hereby	agrees	to	return	to	Triage	all	PHI	received	from,	or	
created	or	received	by	Service	Providers,	from	or	on	behalf	of	Covered	
Entity.
5.	General	Provisions
(a)	State	Law	Preemption.		Certain	provisions	of	state	law	relating	to	privacy	of	
PHI	may	not	be	preempted	by,	and	may	supersede,	the	HIPAA	Regulations.	
With	respect	to	such	provisions	of	state	law	not	preempted	by	the	HIPAA	
Regulations,	Service	Providers	shall	maintain	full	and	complete	compliance	
with	all	state	privacy	requirements.
(b)	Property	Rights.	All	PHI	shall	be	and	remain	the	property	of	Triage	or	the	
Covered	Entity.	Service	Providers	agrees	that	it	shall	not	acquire	any	title	or	
rights	to	any	PHI.
(c)	Changes.	This	Policy	may	be	unilaterally	modified	by	Triage	in	response	to	
new	statutory	or	regulatory	requirements	related	to	HIPAA,	the	HIPAA	
Regulations	or	other	applicable	state	or	federal	law	relating	to	security	and	
privacy	of	PHI.	Any	ambiguity	in	the	language	contained	in	this	Policy	shall	be	
interpreted	consistent	with	HIPAA	Regulations
Agreed	to	and	Acknowledged	by:
By:________________________________________________
																									(Signature)
Name:____________________________________________
																									(Print	or	Type)
Company:________________________________________
Date:_____________________________________________
69
8. General Staff Employment CORE 25,26,27,28,29,30
Equal EmploymentOpportunity
TriageLogic commits to providing a work environment that is free of discrimination. It is the policy of
TriageLogic that all applicants and employees are entitled to equal employment opportunity regardless of
race, color, religion or creed, gender (including pregnancy or related medical conditions), national origin,
age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, veteran status or other protected characteristics as required
by local, state and federal law.
In compliance with the provisions of all applicable state and federal civil rights laws, every effort will be
made to employ the most qualified individuals without regard to the above factors. Additionally, it is and
shall continue to be the Company’s policy to provide promotion and advancement opportunities in a nondiscriminatory fashion. TriageLogic is an equal opportunity employer. TriageLogic does not and will not
permit any of its employees to engage in discriminatory practices involving their co- workers or individuals
that they come in contact with as representatives of the Company. If an employee has an equal employment
opportunity related question, problem, or complaint, they must first discuss it with their immediate
manager/supervisor. If the employee is uncomfortable discussing the matter with their manager/supervisor,
or if the matter involves their manager/supervisor, they may contact Human Resources and then theCEO.
Employment-at-Will
While the Company strivesto make the employmentrelationship a mutually satisfying one,the Company can
make no assurances, either express orimplied, concerning the duration of employment.The employee and the
Company have an employment-at-will relationship. The employment relationship is for an unspecified time
period. Either the employee or the Company may terminate employment at any time, with or without reason
or notice. In addition, it should be noted that no one has the right to alter the employment-at-will relationship
other than the CEO of TriageLogic. Any such agreements by the CEO must be in writing and signed by the
CEO or COO. Therefore, no statement or promise by a supervisor, manager, or department head may be
interpreted as a change in policy, nor will it constitute an agreement made with an employee unlessthe
agreement is with a signed contract.
Anti-HarassmentPolicy
TriageLogic is committed to providing a work environment that isfree from all forms of discrimination
and conductwhich can be considered harassing, coercive, or disruptive, including allforms of harassment
based on protected factors(Race,Color,Sex,Religion,NationalOrigin,Citizenship,Age,Marital Status,
Disability or Sexual Orientation). In fact, the Company has established a “zero tolerance” policy
regarding any form of harassment; however, management reservesthe rightto determine the appropriate
discipline depending upon the severity of the offense. Harassment is a form of misconduct that
underminesthe integrity ofthe employment relationship. No employee should be subject to unsolicited
70
and unwelcome conduct, either verbal or physical. Each person in the organization is responsible for fostering
mutualrespect,for being familiar with this policy, and forrefraining from conduct that violates this policy.
ManagementResponsibility
Harassment, whether committed by supervisory or non-supervisory personnel, is specifically prohibited as
unlawful and against stated Company policy. In addition, the Company’s management is responsible for
taking action against acts of harassment and investigating all complaints of harassment. Violation of this
policy by an employee will subject said employee to disciplinary action up toand including termination. If
an employee believes that he/she has been subjected to harassment, they must use the complaint procedure
set forth under this harassment policy.
Manager/Supervisor Responsibility
Every manager/supervisor is responsible for providing a positive productive work environment free from
harassment. Managers and supervisors are also responsible for doing their best to protect the Company
from liability by ensuring that all employees are aware of the Company harassment policy, the Company
complaint procedure and the penalties associated with violation of the policy.
Employee Responsibility/ComplaintProcedure
Each employee is responsible for ensuring that his or her personal conduct and comments in the
workplace support a professional environment that is free of unwelcome behavior that could be
perceived as harassment or as demeaning, offensive or threatening with regard to gender and/or
personalself-respect.
Americans with Disabilities Act(ADA)
The ADA covers employers with 15 ormore employees and generally prohibits discrimination against
“qualified individuals with disabilities.” A qualified individual with a disability is an applicant or employee
who can perform the essential functions of the job in question with or without reasonable accommodation.
Disability isdefined as:
• a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities;
• a record of such an impairment; or
• being regarded as having such impairment.
TriageLogic willreasonably accommodate qualified applicants and employees with disabilities unless making
the accommodation imposes an undue hardship on the employer’s business. TriageLogic will reasonably
accommodate known disabilities. Therefore, employees needing accommodation should speakdirectly with
their manager/supervisor. TheCompany expectsthe reasonable accommodation processto be a mutual
process by which the Company and employee search for a mutually acceptable reasonable accommodation.
71
TriageLogic will not discriminate against any qualified employees or applicants because they are related
to a person with a disability.
Initial Employment Status
TriageLogic is committed to the premise that the organization and the employee benefit through longterm relationships. The Company’s future success and stability requires it to hire, train, and develop
employees who will, in turn through their experience, knowledge, and commitment, maintain longterm relationships with patients. No interview process can be extensive enough to ensure
compatibility between the individual and the organization necessary for a long-term relationship to
develop.
In order for employees to have time to assess TriageLogic, the job, and its requirements, and for the
Company to have the opportunity to assess each employee, the first 90 days of employment are
considered a mutual tryout period. It is during this 90-day introductory period that the employee and
the Company mutually evaluate job requirements, performance, company policies and attitudes. This
is a period when the decision is made as to how well the match has been made relative to the
employee's needs as well as the Company's needs. Satisfactory completion of the introductory period
does not alter the employment-at-will relationship. The evaluation period will be ongoing and will
continue throughout the employment relationship.
Predictive Index (PI) Survey
In an effort to ensure the best fit for open positions as well as to find the most effective method for
managing current employees, the PI Survey has become an important resource to TriageLogic. All
applicants and independent contractors wishing to work with TriageLogic will be required to
complete the PI survey.
Drug Policy
Prescription	and	over-the-counter	drugs	are	not	prohibited	when	taken	in	standard	dosage	and/or	
according	to	a	physician’s	prescription.	Any	employee	taking	prescribed	or	over-the-counter	medications	
will	be	responsible	for	consulting	the	prescribing	physician	and/or	pharmacist	to	ascertain	whether	the	
medication	may	interfere	with	safe	performance	of	his/her	job.	If	the	use	of	a	medication	could	
compromise	the	safety	of	the	employee,	fellow	employees	or	the	public,	it	is	the	employee’s	responsibility	
to	use	appropriate	personnel	procedures	(e.g.,	call	in	sick,	use	leave,	request	change	of	duty,	notify	
supervisor,	notify	company	doctor)	to	avoid	unsafe	workplace	practices.
Salaries and Rates of Pay
Salaries and rates of pay are determined on an individual basis and are considered strictly
confidential. Salary or rate of pay should only be discussed as necessary, with the appropriate
supervisor or human resources representative. Employees are not allowed to engage in discussions
regarding their own salary or rate of pay with other employees. Nor are they allowed to engage in
discussions regarding the salary or rate of pay of another employee. Even making inferences as to
another’s salary or rate of pay will be considered a violation of this policy.
72
EmployeeClassifications
For purposes of salary administration, eligibility for overtime payments, and employee benefits,
TriageLogic classifies its employees asfollows:
Regular Full -Time Employee - A regular full-time employee is an individual whose employment is
for no definite term and who is scheduled to work a minimum of 35 hours per week on a regular basis.
Regular Part -Time Employee - A regular part-time employee is an individual whose employment is
for no definite term and who is scheduled to work less than 30 hours on a regular basis. Regular parttime employees are not eligible for Paid Time Off (PTO) and may or may not be eligible for other
benefits based on individual plan requirements.
PRN Employee (“as needed”) – A PRN employee is an individual whose employment is for no
definite term and who is periodically scheduled to work “as needed”. PRN employees may or may not
be eligible for benefits based on individual plan requirements.
Temporary Employee - A temporary employee’s work assignment is expected to be of limited duration
(usually less than six months) to temporarily supplement the workforce or help complete a specific
project. Temporary employees are not eligible for benefits.
Exempt Employees – Employees who are not required to be paid overtime, in accordance with
applicable federal and state wage and hour laws, for work performed beyond forty hours in a work
week. Executives, managers, Healthcare Providers, professional employees, and certain employees in
administrative positions areexempt.
Employees vs. Contractors - Contractors may be hired to perform certain tasks for the company. These
may include for example, editing documents and marketing material, providing medical information, and
taking patient phone calls Contractors may be hired to perform certain tasks for the company. These may
include for example, editing documents and marketing material, providing medical information, and
taking patient phone calls Contractors are allowed to work at their own location of choice, as long as the
choice does not conflict with the law such as HIPAA and HITECH. Contractors are also allowed to
determine their own hours. Contractors will be given a list of Company needs and the Contractor can
chose whether or not they want to work on the specific need. Contractors will not receive designated
usage of company property such as desks, and computers, although they may come to the one of our
Company locations and borrow Company property if that is their preference from time to time. In
addition, contractors may engage in work outside of TriageLogic. Each state and the IRS have different
rules regarding who is a contractor and who is an employee. Changes in such rules may require the
Company to reclassify an employee’s status as an employee or contractor. While employees may have
their schedule set by the company and will not be allowed to work for a competing company while
employed by Triagelogic. The Company reserves the right to change an employee’s status in response
to business needs. Employees may request a change in status to accommodate personal circumstances
by discussing the request with their manager/supervisor or Human Resources Manager. In all cases,
the decision to change the status of any position (if at all) will be based on the department’s workload,
73
available resources and an employee’s performance record.
Employee Credit Cards
Company employee credit cards are property of the company and must be immediately surrendered to an
officer of the company upon voluntary or involuntary termination of the employment or contract.
Company employee credit cards are strictly for business expenses and not for the employee’s personal use.
Company employee credit cards cannot be used for food unless approved in advance, at which point a
limit will be given for the specific occasion. Otherwise, food expenses should be paid by the employee,
personally, then submitted for reimbursement, with receipts. All employee credit card expense over $25
requires written approval, in advance, from either of the business owners. Email will be acceptable to
request and grant approval. Some company credit cards are specific to an entity of the TriageLogic group
and should be used only for the expenses of the specific entity, unless approved by a company officer. If
the wrong card is used accidently, a company officer must be notified. Each cardholder is required to sign
an attestation of the policy.
Timekeeping
Accurately recording time worked is the responsibility of every employee. Federal and state laws
require the Company to keep an accurate record of time worked. Time worked is all the time actually
spent on the job performing assignedduties.
Altering, falsifying, tampering with timekeeping data, or recording time using another employee’s
Time and Attendance data may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of
employment. It is the employee’s responsibility to review their time in the time & attendance program
and alert their manager with discrepancies.
Exempt employees are not required to record their time; however, they are expected to be
professionally responsible and work theirregularly scheduled hours plus any other hoursrequired to
satisfactorily complete their assigned responsibilities.
Ethical Standards
We expect all staff to act in an ethical manner that is self-guided and self-directed. Staff should not
access websites that are questionable during their working hours. Any questions on websites or
appropriate activities during working hours should be addressed with management. CORE 28
Licensure, Registration and Certification
Certain positions may require that an employee have or be able to obtain proper licensure,
certification or registration. If these credentials are not achieved, or if they are withdrawn or
suspended by an accrediting body, normal circumstances will require that the employee’s
employment be terminated unless a change in employment status or job assignment can be made.
In the case of certain licensed professionals, TriageLogic is required to report instances that
could be cause for discipline to the professional licensing board.
Job Descriptions CORE	25	&26
74
A job description is available for all TriageLogic employees that reflects the scope of their
responsibilities and includes any required education, training and licensure. The job
description is provided to the employee upon hire and reviewed and or revised annually at
evaluation time to ensure the job description accurately reflects the job being performed.
Staff Training Core 27 & 28TriageLogic provides staff with initial and ongoing training. A copy of
all	training	provided	will	stay	on	file	and	in	shared	sugar	sync	folders.	Any	changes	in	rules or
information	are	announced	at	the	various	company	meetings	as	appropriate.	A	current	policy and
procedure manual
is available to employees at all times through sugar sync. CORE 28 Upon initial employment staff
will be trained on at least the following: Specific training directly related to their responsibilities,
URAC version 5.0 standards, Clinical Support Tools (as applicable), HIPAA, Confidentiality,
Conflict of Interest. Ongoing training will be provided as necessary as policies and/or procedures
change, State/Regulatory updates are received. Should state or federal requirements conflict with
URAC 5.0 standards, an employee would follow the more stringent requirement. Additional
questions should be addressed with the CEO or legal counsel. CORE 28 c
CORE 27 f Continuing education programs/additional training and tools can be requested on a one by
one basis. Requests need to be sent to your direct supervisor. When continuing education has been
approved by your supervisor, a copy of the training must be sent to your supervisor for inclusion in
your personnel file.
Staff Assessment Program CORE 26 & CORE 27 & 29 CORE 30
All TriageLogic staff will receive an annual performance review at least once a year during an agreed
month or in July (as a default) from their supervisor. Each employee may provide at this time an
updated resume/CV for the personnel file. The current job description will be reviewed withthe
employee and updated/revised as necessary at this time. Staff members are asked to bring relevant
documentation of their work as well as ongoing training documents to the performance evaluation.
The review process will also include self-appraisal and anonymous appraisals from all other staff
members that have had significant contact with the employee. The appraisal form will use a rating
system of one through four and the combined ratings from all appraisals will be used to obtain an
average rating for each category. Staff comments will be allowed on each appraisal and kept
anonymous as well.
Core 29b Staff licensure/certification will be verified at this time and signatures will be obtained
annually on the following documents: Conflict of Interest, Confidentiality, HIPAA and any other
documents here that may require signature. Core 16 f
Information Confidentiality
How TriageLogic is perceived by its business associates, the media, legislators, regulatory agencies,
special interest groups, and the general public is a direct result of the external communications
activities carried out by our management and employees. These external relations have a significant
impact on our business. In order to present the best image of TriageLogic, it is important that the
messages we communicate are consistent with Company philosophy, policies and procedures.
75
Serious problems could be created for TriageLogic by unauthorized disclosure ofinternal information
about the Company or its patients. Company personnel should not discuss internal matters or
developments with anyone outside ofthe Company, except asrequired in the performance ofregularjob
duties.
Employees should contact their manager/supervisor if they are unsure as to what information is
confidential. Outside inquiriesregarding TriageLogic should be referred to the CEO. TheCEO serves as
an information channelfor news media and for any person or organization outside the Company. He/she
isresponsible for approval of pressreleases,responding to media inquiries, and coordinating interviews
with themedia.
TriageLogic has a PatientConfidentiality Acknowledgement(Thisis part ofthe HIPAA form)form that is
presented to each newly hired employee. All employees are required to read this Acknowledgement and
agree to its contents. Questionsrelating to confidentiality or possible violations ofits provisionsshould be
referred to the Human Resources Manager orCEO.
During the course of employment, employees will have accessto confidential information. Confidential
information may include, but is not limited to, compensation information, patient lists and information,
financialinformation,marketing strategies,and otherrelated confidentialinformation. Thisinformation
is critical to the success ofthe Company and must not be divulged. Employees must not discuss
confidential matters or release confidentialinformation to any outside party.
Additionally, an employee’ssalary is confidential and isto be held in strict confidence by the employee
and TriageLogic. Individual employee’s salary/wages are not public information. Breach of
confidentiality regarding this information is not appropriate.
Employees who improperly utilize or disclose Company or patient confidential information may be
subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. All employees with accessto patient data
are also required to sign the HIPAA Policy document(see below)
TriageLogic Information Security Policy
What is HIPAA, and what information is protected by it?
HIPAA, short for the United States Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, is a set of
standards introduced by Congress in 1996 that aim to protect the privacy of patient information in the
healthcare industry by regulating how providers handle patient data while conducting business, as
well as ensuring the continuity of individuals' healthcare coverage.
There are two sections to the standard: HIPAA Title I, which focuses on protecting citizens'
healthcare coverage if they are fired or laid off, and HIPAA Title II, which is focused more on
patients' rights and how to properly transmit, share and store theirinformation.
75
HIPAA created a set of universal standards for exchanging and securing personal data via electronic
data interchange (EDI), the goal being to protect all data that is personally identifiable to a specific
person, regardless if it is communicated orally, electronically or in writing.
The HIPAA privacy rule requires all health care providers, or any other organization that processes
medical records, inform patients of their privacy rights, educate and train staff on how medical data
should be properly handled, and implement and practice the required privacy and security policies in
order to ensure that electronic health information of patients remain secure.
Breaking down HIPAA security rules and compliance guidelines
HIPAA's standards require that all health care industries apply and enforce certain protections. The
implementation process will be different for every organization depending on its size, budget, risks
and infrastructure complexity. But regardless of each organization's different needs in terms of
HIPAA implementation, the general HIPAA requirements stay the same.
• Organizations must have an administrative authority in charge of managing and enforcing
HIPAA compliance rules, regulations and efforts. There should be a clear set of guidelines in
place regulating who is and isn't permitted to access patient information. All access to sensitive
data and systems should be monitored.
• Documentation should be provided to patients informing them of their rights.
• All corporate systems, machines and buildings must have physical and technical data and
intrusion protection controls to prevent malicious hacker and unauthorized access.
• There must be a traffic-monitoring device, such as a firewall, in place to examine activity coming
into and leaving the organization's network.
• Management should practice risk assessments, data handling policies, data loss prevention (DLP)
and record all security policies and procedures
Policy on Emails and other forms of communication
Email is not secure. TriageLogic requires that email cannot contain PHI anywhere in the heading or
body of the message. To view any PHI, the user has to log into the system with a user name and
password. When communicating about patients via email, we refer to ticket numbers or note numbers
without mentioning any PHI. Reports and recordings are sent as links for which the user has to login to
view the PHI.
None of the following items can be included in any unsecure communication:
1. Names
2. All geographical identifiers smaller than a state, except for the initial three digits of a zip code if,
according to the current publicly available data from the Bureau of the Census: the geographic unit
formed by combining all zip codes with the same three initial digits contains more than20,000
people; and the initial three digits of a zip code for all such geographic units containing 20,000 or
fewer people is changed to 000
3. Dates (other than year) directly related to an individual
4. Phone numbers
76
5. Fax numbers
6. Email addresses
7. Social Security numbers
8. Medical record numbers
9. Health insurance beneficiary numbers
10. Account numbers
11. Certificate/license numbers
12. Vehicle identifiers and serial numbers, including license plate numbers;
13. Device identifiers and serial numbers;
14. Web Uniform Resource Locators (URLs)
15. Internet Protocol (IP) address numbers
16. Biometric identifiers, including finger, retinal and voice prints
17. Full face photographic images and any comparable images
18. Any other unique identifying number, characteristic, or code except the unique code assigned by
the investigator to code the data.
The HIPAA Compliance Policy needs to be signed by all employees and contractors with access to
patient data.
TriageLogic HIPAA CompliancePolicy
(Updated December 2012)
This TRIAGE HIPAA COMPLIANCE POLICY of Triage Logic Management & Consulting,
LLC (“Triage”) shall apply to all employees of Triage, agents of Triage and employees of Triage
subcontractors (collectively the “Service Providers”). All agents with access to patient data must sign this
document.
PURPOSE OF THIS POLICY. Service Providers are providing various health care services for Triage
(the “Services”) which may involve the observation or use of patients/patient records of hospitals, clinics
or other health care organizations or entities that have entered into services agreements with Triage (these
various health care groups shall be collectively referred to as the “Covered Entities”). In the course of
providing such Services, Service Providers from time to time have access to or possession of Covered
Entity’s patient protected health information or “PHI,” as such term is hereinafter defined. This Policy
shall set forth the terms and conditions pursuant to which Service Providers shall use, secure and keep in
confidence such PHI.
1. Definitions. For the purposes of this Policy, the following terms shall have the following
77
meanings:
(a) Electronic Protected Health Information or “EPHI”. A subset of PHI,
consisting of any PHI that is transmitted by electronic media or maintained in electronic media.
(b) Individual. The person who is the subject of the PHI, and has the same meaning
as the term “individual” as defined by the HIPAA Regulations.
(c) HIPAA Regulations. Those regulations codified at Title 45 of the Code of
Federal Regulations (C.F.R.) and relating to privacy and security of PHI.
(d) Protected Health Information or “PHI”. Any information concerning an
Individual, whether oral or recorded in any form or medium: (1) that relates to the past, present or future
physical or mental condition of such Individual; the provision of health care to such Individual; or the
past, present or future payment for the provision of health care to such Individual; and (2) that identifies
such Individual with respect to which there is a reasonable basis to believe the information can be used to
identify such Individual, and shall have the meaning given to such term under the HIPAA Regulations.
2. Disclosures and Use of PHI. Subject to this Policy, Service Providers shall not the use
the PHI except as necessary to provide the Services. Service Providers hereby agrees that the PHI
provided or made available to it shall not be further used or disclosed other than as permitted or required
by this Policy. Without limiting the foregoing, Service Providers agrees: (i) not to share PHIwith
anyone not directly involved in the patient’s care or treatment; (ii) not to discuss PHI in areas where it
may be overheard; (iii) not to access any PHI without specific direction by Triage; (iv) not to attempt
access to PHI for personal reasons; (v) to inform Triage of any personal relationships which Service
Providers may have with a patient or patient’s family whose PHI Service Providers may access; (vi) if
allowed access to EPHI by Triage or the Covered Entity, to clear computer screens of PHI before leaving
the screen; (vii) to return any PHI provided on paper to the professional staff member or employee who
provided it or to dispose of it within the facility using a shred-it box or as otherwise directed by the
person who provided it; (viii) not to store or transmit any PHI using a portable device or any other
electronic means; (ix) not to remove PHI in any form from the Covered Entity’s facility; and (x) not to
make any photographs, videos, voice recordings or any other reproduction of any PHI.
3. Service Providers Obligations.
(a) Right of Access to PHI. Service Providers and its representatives and
employees shall forward all Individual requests for access to PHI to Triage within one (1) business days
of receipt.
(b) Amendment of PHI. Service Providers shall forward all requestsfor
amendments to an Individual’s PHI to Triage within one (1) business days of receipt.
(c) Accounting of Disclosures. Service Providers shall forward all requests for an
accounting of disclosures of PHI to Triage within one (1) business days of receipt.
(d) Reports of Improper Use or Disclosure and Cooperation. ServiceProviders
shall report in writing to Triage within one (1) business day of discovery any use or disclosure of PHI not
provided for or allowed by this Policy. Service Providers shall cooperate with Triage and the Covered
Entity in any review/investigation of an actual or potential breach of HIPAA privacy orsecurity
regulations.
6. Termination and Breach.
(a) Immediate Termination. In regard to Triage employees, Triage reservesthe
rights to discipline any employee of Triage that has breached this Policy, including, the right to terminate
such employee’s employment with Triage. In regard to Triage subcontractors and agents, Triage reserves
the right to terminate their agreement with such subcontractors and agents if they breach this Policy, and
to seek such relief allowed by the contract with such subcontractor or agent and applicable law.
78
(b) Injunctive Relief. Notwithstanding any rights or remedies provided for in this
Policy, Triage shall be entitled to obtain temporary and permanent injunctive relief from any court of
competent jurisdiction to prevent or stop the unauthorized use or disclosure of PHI by Service Providers.
(c) Return or Destruction of PHI. Upon the termination or expiration of Service
Providers’ employment, agency or subcontract relationship with Triage, Service Providers hereby agrees
to return to Triage all PHI received from, or created or received by Service Providers, from or on behalf
of Covered Entity.
5. General Provisions.
(a) State Law Preemption. Certain provisions of state law relating to privacy of
PHI may not be preempted by, and may supersede, the HIPAA Regulations. With respect tosuch
provisions of state law not preempted by the HIPAA Regulations, Service Providers shall maintain full
and complete compliance with all state privacy requirements.
(b) Property Rights. All PHI shall be and remain the property of Triage or the
Covered Entity. Service Providers agrees that it shall not acquire any title or rights to any PHI.
(c) Changes. This Policy may be unilaterally modified by Triage in response to new
statutory or regulatory requirements related to HIPAA, the HIPAA Regulations or other applicable state
or federal law relating to security and privacy of PHI. Any ambiguity in the language contained in this
Policy shall be interpreted consistent with HIPAA Regulations.
Agreed to and Acknowledgedby:
By:
(Signature)
Name:
(Print or Type)
Company:
Date:
79
STAFF	PERFORMANCE	APPRAISAL	FORM
Name:		
Title:		
Appraisal	Type:	 Annual	 90-Day	 Special
Appraisal	Period:	
Rating	Factors:
Not	Applicable 0%
Can	mean	either	not	applicable	to	the	employee	or	not	applicable	to	your	experience	with	the	employee.
Distinguished 5%
Performance	far	exceeds	normal	requirements	of	the	job.	Outstanding	nature	of	performance	is	evident	to	
anyone	in	a	position	to	observe	and	evaluate	it.	Level	of	performance	approaches	the	maximum	possible	
attainment	for	the	position.	Very	few	are	able	to	reach	this	level	of	accomplishment.
Commendable 30%
Performance	clearly	exceeds	the	requirements	of	the	job.	Performance	is	worthy	of	special	note.	
Accomplishment	indicates	extra	thought,	effort,	imagination,	and	results.
Competent	50%
Performance	clearly	meets	the	requirements	of	the	position.	Continued	performance	at	this	level	would	be	
perfectly	acceptable.	Accomplishment	reflects	a	solid	level	of	performance.	Most	qualified	people	are	able	to	
attain	this	level	of	accomplishment.
Needs	Improvement 10%
Performance	is	below	the	competent	level.	Employees	who	are	new	on	this	job	and	develop	at	less	than	
expected	rate	would	fit	this	category.	Continued	performance	at	this	level	is	unacceptable.
Unacceptable 5%
Performance	is	clearly	unsatisfactory	and	below	expectations.
Self		Supervisor
Core	Values
Not	Applicable
Distinguished
Commendable
Competent
Needs	
Improvement
Unacceptable
Integrity
Exemplifies	ethical	behavior.
Speaks	positively	about	the	company,	its	staff,	and	its	leaders.
80
Protects	the	interests	of	the	company	and	aligns	him	or	herself	with	
the	company	values.
Protects	company, its	members,	suppliers	and	customers from	gossip	and	
harm.	Examples	include harmful,	hurtful,	critical,	demeaning,	and	
judgmental	conversation outside	the	presence	of	the	one	who	is	the	
subject	of	the	conversation	
Compassion
Demonstrates	care	for	coworkers,	clients	and	patients.
Develops	and	maintains	positive	and	harmonious	relationships	with	
supervisors,	coworkers	and	clients;	tactfully	handling	sensitive	
situations.
Is	able	to	identify	and	respond	to	customer	needs.
Demonstrates	diplomacy	and	patience	in	dealing	with	customers.
Reliability
Consistently	provides	good	quality.
Steps	in	to	help	when	necessary.		
Can	be	relied	upon	to	carry	out	instructions	to	work	with	limited	
supervision	and	to	be	a	self-starter.	
Accepts	new	assignments	and	responsibilities	willingly.	
Is	ready	to	perform	at	the	beginning	of	their	shift	or	if	on	a	flexible	
schedule,	keeps	enough	common	hours	to	facilitate	teamwork.
Collaboration
Communicates	with	others	to	achieve	the	team’s	common	goals.
Asks	for	help	when	necessary.
Shows	appreciation	for	help	and	suggestions.
Is	flexible	and	willing	to	try	new	ideas	and	processes.
Excellence
Aspires	to	be	their	best	by	setting	goals.
Demonstrates	commitment	to	achieving	the	goals.
Shows	initiative	to	grow	and	learn	new	skills.
Is	organized	within	their	field	by	being	able	to	meet	deadlines,	
communicate	or	perform	tasks	effectively	and	without	errors.
Competency
Not	Applicable
Distinguished
Commendable
Competent
Needs	
Improvement
Unacceptable
Individual	Ability	and	Knowledge
81
Demonstrates	technical	literacy	by	learning	and	applying	new	
technologies	to	their	job,	soliciting	the	support	of	systems	
applications	to optimize	work.
Understands	the	business	structure,	products	and	services	of	each	
company	in	the	TriageLogic	group.
Has	flexibility	to	consistently	seek	improvement	in	processes	and	quality	
of	output.	Accepts	changes	in	direction	readily	and	alters	plans	to	meet	
new	goals	set	by	supervisor	or	team.	
Composes memos,	reports,	documentation	that	are	clear,	well-organized,	
and	grammatical.	Accurately	transmitting	instructions	or	messages	in	a	
written	form.	
Processes	incoming	information	and	inquiries by	directing	mail,	calls,	and	
visitors	accurately	and	efficiently.	Answers	telephones	promptly	and	
courteously.	Greets	clients	in	a	professional	manner	and	maintains	
confidentiality.	
Creates	and	maintains	well-organized	files.	Maintains	complete	and	
accurate	records	that	can	be	readily	accessed	when	information	is	
needed.	
Determines	and	obtains	the	information	needed	to	solve	a	problem	
within	own	scope	of	work.	Applies	rules	and	standards	to	decisions.	
Weighs	alternatives	and	selects	the	best	solution,	and	asks	managers	or	
supervisors	when	a	decision	is	beyond	own	scope	of	work.	
Management
Not	Applicable
Distinguished
Commendable
Competent
Needs	
Time	Management
Improvement
Unacceptable
Manages	time	effectively	to	meet	assigned	deadlines.
Implements	follow-up.
Balances	special projects	with	routine	work.
Effectively	coordinates	tasks	amongst	team	members	and/or	vendors.
Supervisory	Oversight
Leads	by	personal	example,	demonstrating	the	goals	and	priorities	of	
the	company	inspiring	people	to	believe	they	can	make	a	significant	
contribution.
Takes	responsibility	for	coaching	and	development	within	their	
department.
Gives	on-going,	immediate	and	constructive	feedback.
82
Reports	information	and	participates	effectively	in	meetings.
Analyzes	and	makes	decisions	by	obtaining	the	information	needed	to	
solve	a	problem	and	applying	rules	and	standards	to	decisions.	
Puts	a	focus	on	profitable	results	of	the	business	into	all	planning.
Internal	Control
Understands	the	risks	and	controls	related	to	their	position	and	the	
impact	it	can	have	on	the	profitability	of	the	business.
Is	knowledgeable	of	the	URAC	standards	related	to	their	position.
Adheres	to	the	URAC	standards.
Knows	the	operations	and	procedures	of	the	company	or	is	aware	of	
the	sources	for	answers	to	questions.
Action	Plan	/	Goals:
1.
Supervisor's	Comments:
Employee's	Comments:
Employee's	Signature:
(Signature	indicates	only	receipt	of	the	review,	not	that	the	employee	
agrees	with	the	review) Date:
83
Appraiser's	Signature/s: Date:
EMPLOYEE’S	REFUSAL	TO	SIGN:	
I	certify	that	this	performance	appraisal	was	discussed	with	the	
employee	who	refused	to	sign. Date:
HIPPA:
I	HAVE	RECEIVED	THE	MOST	RECENT	COMPANY	POLICY	AND	
PROCEDURE	MANUAL.		I	WAS	REMINDED	ABOUT	HIPAA	AS	IT	
APPLIES	TO	MY	POSITION.				I	WAS	GIVEN	AN	OPPORTUNITY	TO	ASK	
ANY	QUESTIONS	RELATED	TO	MY	WORK,	HIPAA	AND	ANY	RULES	OR	
REGULATIONS	I	AM	EXPECTED	TO	FOLLOW.		(P/P	Revised:		1/2017)
Employee's Signature: Date:
84
RATING FACTORS
The following are conditions that should be considered when assessing the employee’s performance.
JOB KNOWLEDGE: In depth knowledge of all requirements of the job. How well does the employee
understand all phases of the job as defined by the performance standards set for the position?
QUALITY OF WORK: Accuracy and neatness. Does the employee produce a high quality work product? Is
quality work a priority for theemployee?
PRODUCTIVITY: Consider employee’s ability to prioritize and organize work effectively to meet assigned
deadlines. Were assignments timely completed and appropriate follow-up implemented? Is the employee a selfstarter?
DEPENDABILITY: Employee needs little or no direction. To what extent can the employee be relied upon to
carry out instructions; and the degree to which the employee can work with limited supervision?
ATTENDANCE: Attendance and punctuality are very important in maintaining a normal work load and
efficient schedule. Employees are expected to report to work regularly and be ready to perform their assigned
duties at the beginning of their assigned work shift. Is the employee absent frequently? Are the absences
affecting his/her performance? Does this pattern constitute a hardship on the work environment?
RELATIONS WITH OTHERS: Consider employee’s abilities to maintain a positive and harmonious attitude
in the work environment. How well does the employee relate to the supervisors, co-workers and the broader
TriageLogic community?
COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS: To what extent has the employee followed company policies and
procedures, State and Federal Requirements and URAC standards?
SUPERVISOR ABILITY: In the evaluation of this factor, consider the employee’s ability to organize, plan,
train, delegate and control the work of subordinates in an effective manner.
LEVELS OF PERFORMANCE
The employee’s performance shall be rated in one of the following categories:
EXCEED PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: An evaluation resulting from overall performance which is
significantly above the performance standards of the position.
ACHIEVES PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: An evaluation resulting from performance which fully meets
the performance standards of theposition.
BELOW PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: An evaluation resulting from performance which fails to meetthe
minimum performance standards of the position. The supervisor must contact Human Resources to initiate a
Performance Improvement Plan, which must be completed jointly by the employee and the supervisor.
Distribution: Original – HumanResources Copy – Supervisor Copy – Employee
83
90 Day Employee Review
Employee Name: Title:
Reviewer Type: Mgt. Appraisal # of Raters: 4 Mgrs. and Self w
This document provides the necessary information we require to achieve a highly effective
workplace. Please ensure you answer the following questions with honesty and integrity. Your
responses will be documented along with those provided by your team. The individual who is
being reviewed will not be made aware which managers gave which ratings. Thanks for taking
part.
How would you rate this fellow colleague overall?
High Low
10 9 8w 7 6 5 4 3.60 2 1 0
Below we would like you to select the accurate description for your colleague, please ensure you
complete each line. Please be aware that the “NFH” section is for those who do not have first hand
knowledge to be able to comment - should this be the case please circle “NFH”.
Using the scale of 1-5 in this section 1 being “less likely” and 5 being “highly likely”. Please select
the number in the end box or select the “NFH” box.
1 Exemplifies Ethical Behavior 1 2.50 3 4w 5 NFH
2 Is respectful of the workplace and colleagues 1 2 3.40 4 5w NFH
3 Is able to plan, organize, administrate, prioritize
and meet deadlines
1 2.20 3w 4 5 NFH
4 Understands and complies with company policies
and procedures
1 2.50 3 4w 5 NFH
5 Represents the company in a positive manner
when interacting with customers and others
outside of the company
1 2 3.67 4 5w NFH
6 Is willing to develop new skills and grow within
the company
1 2.75 3 4 5w NFH
7 Is able to communicate, listens, and follow up
with assigned task
1 2.00 3w 4 5 NFH
84
8 Performs good quality work, is accurate,
thorough, productive and attains goals
1 2.25 3 4w 5 NFH
9 Willing to accept responsibility of his or her own
actions
1 2.50 3 4 5w NFH
10 You are comfortable communicating with this
colleague
1 2 3.00 4 5w NFH
Please list the areas where you feel this employee is doing well.
Please list any areas where you feel this employee could improve.
Any concerns?
Training Suggestions: What additional training would you suggest to help this colleague in the
areas needing improvement mentioned above?
Reviewer Feedback: 
85
EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL FILE CHECKLIST Core25
*Update the checklist of documents to be in each file annually CORE 26
 CV or Application
 Job Description
 Employment Contract or Contractor Agreement
 W4 Form or _I-9 Form
__IRA
Confidentiality Statement Form (employeesonly)
Licensure/Certification Verification/Attestation core 26, core 30
			Proof	of	Current License
			Proof	of	Liability Insurance
			 LicenseVerification
			 Employee	Attestation	Statement	ofLicensure
Documentation ofTraining/Orientation
 Orientation
 Staff Orientation/TrainingAttestation
 On-going Training/Education/Continuing Education (CE)
 Signed HIPAA CompliancePolicy
 URAC Training (as appropriate)
 HIPAA Training/Updates
 State Regulatory Training
 New Nurse Requirement Checklist (PhoneRN Only)
Yearly PerformanceEvaluations
 Yearly PerformanceEvaluations
86
87
Subject of Training:
Date:
Participants Name: Job Title:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
88
9. Clinical Staff
A. Clinical Staff Credential Verification and Medical Director Responsibility
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
_XTriage Logic
_X_Phone RN
_X_PRN
Effective	Date: 11/13/2013
Name	of	Policy/Procedure:	ClinicalStaff
Credentialing
Previous	VersionsDated:
Policy	#: 16 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
CORE 30 a-• -d
I. PURPOSE
To provide a mechanism to maintain current licensure and certification information for Medical Staff
members/Practitioners, and to deal with adverse reactions against these licenses and certificates.
II. POLICY
It is the policy of TriageLogic to verify the current licensure or certification of staff whose job description
requires licensure or certification upon hire and thereafter no later than scheduled expiration and no less
than every three years through the applicable State Board of Nursing and utilize Nursys eNotify for keeping
track of renewals and alerts only. In addition, it is the responsibility of the individual staff member to notify
TriageLogic immediately should an adverse change in licensure or certification status occur. CORE 30d
The following Practitioners fall under this policy:
1. Medical Director: Medical Director is a licensed physician. CORE	31b	and	c	Current licensing
information is available on the medical board of state of license website. The Medical Director
license is verified by the Compliance Officer and reported to the CEO.
2. Nursing Licensure: TriageLogic uses each applicable State Board of Nursing to verify licensure
and report any changes in status to the Medical Director.
CORE	30 a
89
CORE 30 d TriageLogic requires that upon hire, staff who are required to have credentials/ certification
sign an attestation noting that TriageLogic be informed of any changes to licensure/certification status
immediately.
The following employees of TriageLogic are required to have current licensure or certification:
Nursing:
1. All RN’s CORE 30
Upon hire, all RNs need to sign the following requirements:
As a condition to this Agreement, the Consultant must provide the following in a form and
substance acceptable to PRN/PhRN, prior to the initial provision of Services and as
requested by PRN/PhRN:
a. Proof of current licensure as a Registered Nurse in a Nurse Compact State, and
maintenance and proof of such licensure during the Term by faxing proof of licensure
upon renewal;
b. Proof of current professional liability insurance in a form and amount of coverage
acceptable to PRN/PhRN, and maintenance and proof of such insurance during the
Term by faxing proof of renewals or replacement coverage (the policy shall name
PRN/PhRN as an additional insured);
c. Proof of current DSL or equivalent internet service (no dial up service) and telephone
service, and maintenance and proof of such services during the Term; to be obtained
and maintained at the sole expense of the Consultant; and
d. Completion of orientation provided by PRN/PhRN to the satisfaction ofPRN/PhRN.
Proof of continued compliance with these licensing, certification, insurance, and internet and telephone
requirements must be provided by the Consultant to PRN/PhRN in a form and substance acceptable to
PRN/PhRN on or before the expiration of the current term of such licenses, certifications, insurance, and
internet and telephone requirements. However, PRN/PhRN may request proof of compliance by Consultant
of these requirements at any time, and such proof shall be promptly provided by the Consultant to
PRN/PhRN upon any such request. Any failure by PRN/PhRN to request proof of such compliance at any
time shall not constitute a waiver, estoppels, modification, or any other defense to full compliance with
these requirements. The Consultant further agrees to immediately provide PRN/PhRN notice that it has lost
the license required by section a. above or if the insurance policy required in b. above has been terminated,
cancelled or expired.
90
2. Medical Director
Education required:
• Current unrestricted Medical License. Medical Licensure status is monitored by the
Compliance Officer and the CEO. HCC2a.	CORE 31a
• Minimum five years post graduate direct patient care experience HCC2c.	Core 31c
• Board Certification CORE 31d
• The Medical Director is required to inform TriageLogic of adverse changes to
licensure/certification status immediately so reassignment of duties can be made. CORE
30
Credentials Verification:
The following credential verifications will be obtained for all Practitioners from the primary
source or a designated equivalentsource:
Florida board of medicine CORE	30b
a. Issuing State or Entity
b. Type of Licensure
c. Expiration Date
d. Licensure in Good Standing
III. Adverse Changes in Licensure/Certification Status
Core 30c
The CEO is responsible for implementing corrective actions with respect to medical director and
clinical privileges. The Medical Director is responsible for implementing corrective actions with respect
to nursing licenses and clinical privileges: CORE 32d
Voluntary surrender or restriction of clinical privileges in response to adverse changes in licensure
or certification.
• Adverse actions including reducing, restricting, suspending, revoking, or denying privileges,
or a decision not to renew privileges, if that action or decision was based on the
practitioner’s professional competence or conduct
• Voluntary withdraw of an initial application for medical staff membership and/or clinical
privileges while provider under investigation by the hospital for possibleprofessional
incompetence or improper professional conduct or in return for not conducting such an
investigation or taking a professional review action
91
IV. Primary Responsibilities of the Medical Director
1. Maintains accountability for the medical oversight of the Triage Logic Call Center, ensuring
appropriate level of quality care, compliance with protocols, policies and procedures, and practice
standards. Ensures the organizational objective to have qualified clinicians accountable to the
organization for decisions affecting consumers. CORE 32	d
2. Serves as advisor to the Nursing staff by participating in the oversight of operational activities to
ensure the efficient use of resources and development of goals and objectives. CORE 31
3. Maintains accountability for review and approval of all telephone triage protocols.Reviews,
evaluates and resolves potential grievances associated with participating physicians or triage
staff. Core 32b
4. Maintains contact and consultation with practitioners by speaking to customers, attending
medical conferences and keeping abreast of changes in medicine Core 32c
5. Active member of the Triage Logic Quality Committee and Executive Board. Serves in the
capacity of Triage Medical Director On-Call.
6. Monitors all delegated entity activities; pre-assessment and ongoing assessments of delegated
entities, specifically PRN. Core 7,	 Core 8 a-• -h
7. Oversees periodic quality assurance and review of randomly selected patient triage telephone
encounter forms. Serves as a member of the Quality Committee and participates inquality
assurance and quality improvement activities as appropriate and necessary. Approximately 45%
of the Medical Director/COO’s time is spent on quality assurance initiatives and client complaint
resolution activities. CORE	32 d
8. Establishes and maintains effective communication channels with all associates and
reviews/reports program status as appropriate. Provides oversight for compliance with regulatory
agencies regarding standards for telephone phone triage and advice services.
9. Responsible for corporate compliance with information confidentiality and security, and reports
any breach to Compliance Officer.
10. Tracks applicable laws and regulations in the area of nursing and telephone medicine and informs
any changes in law to the CEO and to any parties affected by law. CORE	4 a
V. Related Documents
See sample contracts and jobdescriptions.
See Employee Attestation Statement of Licensure
92
B. Financial Incentives of Clinical Staff CORE33
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
			 Triage Logic
			Phone RN
			PRN
EffectiveDate:11/13/13
Name of Policy/Procedure: FinancialIncentives Previous	VersionsDated:
Policy	#: 17 Most	Recent Review:
I. POLICY
TriageLogic does not have a system for reimbursement, bonuses or incentives to staff or health care
providers based on consumer utilization of health care services.
Clients provide the TriageLogic service to their patients and TriageLogic provides no additional
financial incentive to reflect on patient care. All of our consumers come to TriageLogic through their
medicalrepresentative.
The nurses who take call for the call center are either an employee on an hourly/fixed salaryor
contractors paid an hourly rate. Nurses are not incentivized on the number of calls handled in an hour
or a shift.
TriageLogic contracts with clients who then in turn control the access to the service through their own
phone system. TriageLogic does not receive any financial incentive from the clients except for the prenegotiated fee schedule for services. The fee structure does not have any impact on the nurse managing
the patient calls.
In some particular cases (such as in delegated work to PRN), TriageLogic will pay owners on a per call
basis. However, owners do not have direct contact with practices and they cannot directly influence
patients to make phone calls. Patients come directly through their physicians, and the physicians are the
ones who instruct their patients to call nurses. Triage Logic’s medical director and the CEO participate
in meetings with the PRN owners to ensure that they are not able to influence patient phone calls. In
addition, medical Dir. is responsible for overseeing nursing quality and random checks on past phone
calls to ensure the highest level of quality of care, and no influence on patient phone calls. Finally,
triage logic also conducts patient surveys and research to study patient phone call patterns and patient
satisfaction from the nurse call.
93
C. Client and Consumer Access to Program Services CORE 34
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
X		Triage Logic
			Phone RN
X PRN
EffectiveDate:11/13/13
Name of Policy/Procedure: Access toServices Previous	VersionsDated:
Policy	#: 18 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
I. CLIENT AND CONSUMER ACCESS TO PROGRAM SERVICES
Refer to ClinicalDocument
a. Client Access
Our agreement with the client has a toll free line – the client uses that number to forward calls to
the triage system as per our pre-agreed coveragetimes.
b. Consumer/Clinical Access
Patients/callers access triage services either by calling an assigned telephone number specific to the
participating physician’s office, or as a call forwarded to our contracted medical answering service.
Every call put into the system remains in the common queue until a nurse claims the call. This
ensures that no call can be left unanswered. As part of TriageLogic’s Telephone Performance
Standards, the following information related to access is monitored on a monthly basis:
• Call Volume
• Average speed to answer
• Call Abandonment Rate
• Percentage of Calls on Hold
• Average Blockage Rate
• Average Call Back Time
Access Standards
See Call Center Policies – Policy for Monitoring Telephone Performance Standards
The following information ismonitored:
Average Speed to Answer, Call Abandonment Rate, Percentage of Calls on Hold, Average Blockage
Rate
94
D. Consumer and Medical Complaint Process CORE35
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
			 Triage Logic
			Phone RN
			PRN
EffectiveDate:11/13/13
Name	of	Policy/Procedure:	Complaint Process Previous	VersionsDated:
Policy	#: 13 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
I. Client/Consumer Complaints
1. All complaints come through the provider (client) who is contracting for services.
2. Each client has a designated client relations manager to contact directly to inform us ofany
complaints. TriageLogics client relations manager contacts the client and informs them about the
process to get the complaint resolved and also lets them know that they are allowed to speak
directly to the medical director if they need to speak to someone in addition to filing the incident
report. Core 35b The Client Relations Manager takes on the complaint and places it in an incident
report. Core 35a
3. The Client Relations Manager gathers information about the complaint and forwards it tothe
appropriate party - the manager of the non-clinical staff or the nurse manager on call for the clinical
staff.
4. The manager of the non-clinical staff or the nurse manager reviews the complaint, listens to the
call, reviews the note and talks to the agent or nurse involved.
5. Then manager will write a summary of their findings, how the complaint was addressed and if the
provider was informed.
6. All complaint forms are sent to the medical director to sign off and discuss at the weekly nurse
manager meeting. CORE 35c
7. If the nurse manager feels the medical director needs to be involved in the resolution, then they will
inform the client that they are discussing the case with the medical director and will get back to
them.
8. Time frames for complaint resolution: Complaints/Incidents should be resolved within 30 days
from the time the complaint is received to the time we contact the client with resolution. In some
cases, it may take a few extra days in order to resolve a complaint completely, however, the
resolution date is noted in the complaint form. CORE 35d.
95
9. Medical director reports complaints to the quality management committee at least once a year.
Complaint reports are also available in sugar sync for the CEO and nurse managers to verify and
keep track. Core 35e
Clinical Incident Report
96
Reminders:
Please do not change the password without letting any Nurse Manager know first
Only nurse managers should submit the incident reports. If a nurse that is not a manager fills out
the report, click “Save Partial Work” and let a nurse manager know
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
10. Consumer Protection and Empowerment
38,	39, 40
This	policy/procedure	appliesto:
X	Triage Logic
			Phone RN
X PRN
Effective	Date:11/13/13
Name	of	Policy/Procedure:	ConsumerSafety
Mechanism
Most	Recent	RevisionDated:
Policy	#: 10 Most	Recent Review: 9/27/16
I. POLICY
TriageLogic is committed to patient safety and follows specific procedures when responding to
patients with an immediate threat of health and safety.
The Clinical Manager of the call center can be reached by non-clinical staff 24 hours a day/7 days a
week to respond to issues or questions related to patient care. Patients who have problems which are
thought to be potentially life, limb or vision threatening will be triaged as “Urgent” and directed to
seek care within 24 hours or sooner. These patients may be directed to ED, urgent care center,or
physician office. TriageLogic also maintains specific procedures for special circumstances/high risk
cases. Please see the related documents at the end of this policy.
TriageLogic trains staff, through mock simulation calls, proper procedures for handling Urgent/High
Risk Cases.
II. RELATED DOCUMENTS
See Call Center Policies - Clinical Staff Training Policy
See Call Center Policies - Procedure for Special Circumstances / High Risk Cases
CORE 37,
105
HEALTH LITERACY Core 40
This policy/procedure appliesto:
X Triage Logic
__Phone RN
X PRN
Effective Date:11/13/13
Name of Policy/Procedure: Health Literacy Most Recent Revision Dated:
Policy #: 11 Most Recent Review: 9/27/16
• Making sure the consumer materials are in plain language; see definition below. Core 40 a
• Measuring the extent to which the organization's consumer documents use plain language; if
applicable
• Training staff members who interface with or write content for consumers.
I. POLICY
It is the policy of TriageLogic to create materials that consumers/patients have the capacity to obtain,
process, and understand in order to make appropriate decisions regarding their health and that materials
are written in plain language. The following three elements will be considered when communicating
with patients:
Plain Language is defined as: Communication that uses short words and sentences, common terms
instead of (medical) jargon, and focuses on the essential information recipients need to understand.
TriageLogic interacts with consumers through nurse triage. TriageLogic nurses only give patients
advice from standard guidelines provided by Dr. Bart Schmitt and David Thompson. Under no
circumstances are nurses allowed to use outside resources unless pre-approved by the Medical Director
and made available from within the software.
Nurses are allowed to email health information after they have completed a full assessment of the patient
using the standard triage guidelines. These information sheets are provided within the Schmitt Thompson
database.
When emailing a patient, staff are asked to communicate in ways understandable to the consumer,
without using complex medical terms or jargon. Core 40 c
Any materials created internally for consumers will be reviewed by the Medical Director to verify that it
is written in plain language. After approval it will be discussed with the nurse managers at the weekly
meeting. Once the nurse managers and Medical Director are in agreement, nurses will be informed and it
will be uploaded to the software and made available to the nurses.
Core 40(b)
106